ReelPass.com - 32+ Adult Sites For One Low Price! Warning this site contains adult related materials! This website contains information, links, images and videos of sexually explicit material. If you are under the age of 18 (21 in some jurisdictions) and if such material offends you or if it's illegal to view such material in your community please do not proceed. Please read and comply with the following terms conditions before you continue: - I am at least 18 years of age (21 in some jurisdictions). - The sexually explicit material I am viewing is for my own personal use and I will not expose minors to the material. - I desire to receive/view sexually explicit material. - I believe that as an adult it is my inalienable right to receive/view sexually explicit material. - I believe that sexual acts between consenting adults are neither offensive nor obscene. - The viewing, reading and downloading of sexually explicit materials does not violate the standards of my community, town, city, state or country. - I am solely responsible for any false disclosures or legal ramifications of viewing, reading or downloading any material in this site. Furthermore this website nor its affiliates will be held responsible for any legal ramifications arising from fraudulent entry into or use of this website. - I agree that by entering this website, I am subjecting myself and any business entity of which I have any legal or equitable interest to the personal jurisdiction of the State of California should any dispute arise at any time between this website and myself and/or such business entity. - As a member you are responsible for paying periodic membership fees in accordance with the current fee plans as of the date of subscribing. Until such time as this Agreement is terminated in accordance with its provisions, Subscriber agrees to pay his/her/its subscription fee by credit card (or other approved facility or mechanism), and hereby authorizes our billing company (epoch.com, ccbill.com, jettis.com or electracash.com) to charge Subscriber's credit card (or other approved facility or mechanism) for the ongoing subscription fee, and for any and all purchases or products and/or services purchased by Subscriber from the Service. - Subscriber agrees to immediately inform our billing company (epoch.com, ccbill.com, jettis.com or electracash.com) of any of the following changes in his/her/its credit card account: Change in home or billing address; card loss or theft, or unauthorized usage of the card; apparent breach of security of Subscriber ID or password, such that unauthorized access to the Service via the card is possible. Unless Subscriber gives proper notice to CyberQuest of same, Subscriber will remain liable to CyberQuest for any and all charges for unauthorized use of the Service. - Subscriber's subscription to the service will be automatically renewed as stated below upon expiration of the initial term, unless CyberQuest is notified via our online Customer Service Area at http://www.monsterloads.com/support.html. The 3 day trial membership renews at the monthly rate if the subscriber has not cancelled 24 hours prior to the expiration date. Monthly membership renews at the monthly rate if the subscriber has not cancelled 7 days prior to expiration. Membership can be cancelled at any time by going to http://www.monsterloads.com/support.html. This warning page constitutes a legal agreement between this website and you and/or any business in which you have any legal or equitable interest. If any portion of this agreement is deemed unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction it shall not affect the enforceability of the other portions of the agreement. All performers on this site are over the age of 18, have consented being photographed and/or filmed, have signed model release and provided proof of age, believe it is their right to engage in consensual sexual acts for the entertainment and education of other adults and believe it is your right as an adult to watch them doing what adults do. The videos and images in this site are intended to be used by responsible adults as sexual aids, to provide sexual education and to provide sexual entertainment. All performers are given the opportunity to be tested for sexually transmitted diseases at no charge to themselves within a reasonable amount of time before their performance. All activity is arranged and discussed in advance of filming and every effort is made to insure the health and safety of the performers and to ensure that their performance is a pleasant and enjoyable experience. So, without too much further ado, if you've read and fully understand the above agreement, and you affirm and swear that viewing/downloading/receiving sexually explicit materials does not violate the standards of your community, that you won't make any of the materials available to minors in any form, that you believe it is your constitutional right to view these materials, that you are wholly liable for any legal ramifications that may arise for your receiving or viewing of these materials and that you are over the age of 18 (21 in some jurisdictions). Now featuring 32+ premium sites for ONE low price! Members Login | Customer Support © 2008-2009 CyberQuest All Rights Reserved In compliance with United States Code, Title 18, Section 2257, all models, actors, actresses porn stars and other persons who appear in any visual depiction of sexually explicit conduct appearing or otherwise contained in or at this site were over the age of eighteen years at the time of the creation of such depictions. The content is inappropriate for minors. The records required pursuant to 18 USC 2257 pertaining to this production and all materials associated herewith are on file with the Custodians of Records. 18 U.S.C. 2257 Record Keeping Requirements Compliance Statement Our Privacy Policy | Terms of Service | Webmasters See Our Reviews