Leandro Bisiach ( 1864 &amp;ndash ; 1 December 1945 ) was an Italian violin maker , who was born in Casale Monferrato and died in 1945 at Venegono Superiore near Varese. # Biography # Trained as a violinist , he made his first violin on his own and received praise for it . Thus he decided to become a violin maker and moved to Milan to work with the Antoniazzi family in 1886 . With them he established a partnership of exceptional importance , putting to good use his artistic skills and business ability . After having moved his workshop to various premises , he retired to his villa in Venegono leaving his sons Andrea and Carlo Bisiach to continue the business in Milan . Bisiach was an outstanding figure in the commerce of antique violins but above all had the merit of raising a generation of great luthiers , among whom for example Gaetano Sgarabotto , Igino Sderci , Pietro Borghi , Ornati and Garimberti come to mind . His workshop can be considered as the most important in Italy in that period . Besides Leandro Bisiach @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ : Riccardo Antoniazzi , Romeo Antoniazzi , Gaetano Sgarabotto , Giuseppe Ornati , Ferdinando Garimberti , Igino Sderci , Rocchi Sesto , Cipriano Briani , Camillo Mandelli , Ferriccio Varagnolo , Camillo Colombo , Vincenzo Cavani , Pietro Paravicini , Albert Moglie , Andrea Bisiach , Carlo Bisiach , Pietro Borghi , Mirco Tarasconi , Leandro Jr . &amp; Giacomo Bisiach , Iginio Siega and Carlo Ferrario . As is known , after the death of the last great Cremonese Masters after the middle of the 18th century , only the Cerutis remained in Cremona to prevent that memorable tradition from dying out completely . It was the Antoniazzis who undertook the task of transferring the scant knowledge saved from oblivion from Cremona to Milan . However the most important event for the renaissance of violin-making in Lombardy was certainly the meeting between Riccardo Antoniazzi and Leandro Bisiach ; the latter , thanks to his talent , his taste and his business ability succeeded in founding , at the end of the 19th century , a workshop which soon gained international fame . Leandro Bisiach did a great deal of research @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ instruments from his best period is very beautiful ; of transparent and flexible quality . He primarily used a light red-orange color although it varied greatly from one instrument to another . He had a special talent for creating antiqued varnishes for the numerous copies he made . To give it the old look he very often shaded off the varnish only at the base of the back plate . He used a large number of diverse models but principally those of Stradivari Amatise and other models of Guarneri , Balestrieri , Guadagnini , Gagliano , Enrico and Giovanni Battista Ceruti or other violin makers from Veneto in the 18th century . He also utilized many others as chance would have it . He received various awards and recognition at the World Exhibition of London 1895 , Atlanta 1895-1896 , Turin 1898 , Paris 1900 , Milan 1906 and Brussels 1910 . The shaping of the back , in Bisiach 's instruments , can be identified by the accentuated hollowing out that emphasizes the border , which is rounded . The inlay has a large central white strip and two very @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ an echo of the Stradivarian style . The F holes are cleanly and precisely cut , while the columns of the ribs are clearly inspired by the classic Cremonese school . Bisiach 's varnishes , usually a beautiful red-brown , have brilliant yellow-gold reflections . - Pardo Fornaciari , Arte Liuteria Musicians who owned Leandro 's instruments include Sebastian Campesi ( Legendary American Jazz Violinist ) and Nathan Milstein : a copy of 1678 Stradivari made by Leandro Bisiach in 1920. # Quotes # The baron Andrea Paganini , grandson of the famous Niccolo , wrote a letter of thanks to Bisiach in 1839 for the repair in admirable style of his Stradivarius . Other clients included Sarasate , Joachim , and violincellist Alfredo Piatti , who trusted his violoncello ( a Stradivarius , from which Bisiach made a reproduction ) to no-one else . This patriarch of violin making must have had a rather striking personality , if his own maestro , Riccardo Antoniazzi , to say nothing of Antoniazzi 's father Gaetano and brother Romeo , joined the company that Bisiach had created in his own name . - @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ native town of Casale Monferrato , in 1886 , and immediately transferred himself to Milan where , as student of Riccardo Antoniazzi , thanks to Antoniazzi 's maestro Enrico Ceruti ( 1803-1883 ) and of his teacher , Claudio Storioni , he could claim more than just an imaginary affiliation with the great Cremonese school . In fact Storioni had been a student of Carlo Bergonzi , the only true custodian of the secrets of Stradivarius . We must say that Leandro Bisiach honoured his significant inheritance , which in actuality was not only symbolic . By one of those tricks of fortune that make one suspect the hand of destiny , Leandro senior had come into possession of tools and models that had belonged to the various old Cremonese masters . This seems strange enough in itself , a curious coincidence . In reality , he had much greater luck ; among the documents and papers obtained by Fanny Rossi , the widow of Giacomo Stradivari ( 1822-1901 ) , Bisiach found the most precious and extraordinary item imaginable , that is , the formula for the varnish of the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was not the only varnish of the eighteenth century that Bisiach could use . He had at hand another formula used first by Giovan Battista Ceruti ( 1755-1817 ) and later by two other generations of the same family . In addition , in 1929 he gained possession of a collection of documents attributed to Stradivarius , among which he found another formula that dated back to the great Cremonese. - Pardo Fornaciari , Arte Liuteria Leandro Bisiach did a great deal of research and found some old recipes . The varnish on the instruments from his best period is very beautiful ; of transparent and flexible quality . He primarily used a light red-orange color although it varied greatly from one instrument to another . He had a special talent for creating antiqued varnishes for the numerous copies he made . To give it the old look he very often shaded off the varnish only at the base of the back plate . He used a large number of diverse models but principally those of Stradivari , Amatise and other models of Guarneri , Balestrieri , Guadagnini , Gagliano , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the 18th century . He also utilized many others as chance would have it . - Leandro was one of the most influential violin makers and dealers of the late 19th and early 20th centuries . He won important recognition and prizes in International exhibitions in London ( 1895 ) , Atlanta ( 1895-96 ) , Turin ( 1898 ) , Paris ( 1900 ) , Milan ( 1906 ) , and Brussels ( 1910 ) , and in 1905 opened and successfully ran a workshop that can be compared to the great workshops of J.B. Vuillaume and W.E . Hill and Sons . - One can easily say that Leandro was as influential in 20th century as J.B. Vuillaume was in the 19th century . Auction Record:Leandro Bisiach , Violin Milan 1895 Brompton 's ( London , England ) Nov.3 , 2008 $93,893 / 59,220 - 