Dr. Kate Shaw ( born 1961 , in Melbourne , Australia ) is an Australian academic , planning activist and commentator , currently serving as a Research Fellow at the University of Melbourne . ' ' Disambiguation : For the Melbourne artist Kate Shaw , see # Background # Kate Shaw worked in alternative theatre and arts publicity in Melbourne in the 1980s , before undertaking a post-Graduate Diploma in urban policy and planning ( 1993 ) and a Masters in urban planning ( 1999 ) , both at RMIT . She then moved to the University of Melbourne and taught planning law , statutory planning , urban design , and ran classes on political economy , gentrification and the cultures of cities . Dr. Shaw 's PhD in planning ( University of Melbourne , 2005 ) was Room to move : the politics of protecting the place of alternative culture and used a number of case studies from European and Australian cities to investigate the range of policies that have been used to support alternative culture in neighbourhoods subject to gentrification . From 2005-8 she was research @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Transnational and Temporary : students , community and place-making in central Melbourne , looking at the growing student population and how they are housed in Melbourne . Her own ARC funded project on Planning the creative city : reconciling global strategies with local subcultures took place from 2009-2012 . She is currently an Australian Research Council ( ARC ) Future Fellow in Urban Geography and Planning , in the School of Land and Environment at the University of Melbourne . # Scholarly contributions # Her current research focuses on urban renewal in the 21st century . Accepting that the economic case for growth combines with the environmental case for limiting urban sprawl to produce an irresistible logic for increasing the densities of Australian cities , it explores ways of improving on the renewal projects of the last 50 years . Current work examines the legislative , regulatory , financial , political and cultural barriers to socially equitable urban development , and researches practices across the world that do it well . Her most recent book is ' ' Whose Urban Renaissance ? An international comparison of urban regeneration policies ' ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Public engagement # Dr. Shaw is notable for her work in connection with the protection of local cultural diversity and alternative sub-cultures . This has encompassed community activism and education , media contributions and academic publications . Shaw was involved in the ' Save the Espy ' campaign in the late 1990s and early 2000s , formally known as The Esplanade Alliance . The Esplanade Hotel in the inner Melbourne suburb of St Kilda is an iconic venue famous for its support of a wide variety of Australian rock and alternative music acts . The site on which the hotel stands was purchased in 1997 by developer Becton who proposed to build a high-rise upmarket apartment complex to take advantage of the extremely good views across Port Phillip Bay and back to the Melbourne central city area . Apart from the debate about the merits of such a tall building in an otherwise relatively low-rise area , the concern of local residents and the music community was that even if the hotel itself was allowed to remain , the venue would soon be forced to stop hosting live music due to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as has been the case in many other gentrifying suburbs , such as Fitzroy . The campaign was successful in reducing the height of the tower significantly and ensuring that key aspects of the hotels layout were retained to enable its survival as a live music venue . # Selected publications # * Porter , L. and Shaw , K. ( Eds ) ( 2008 ) ' ' Whose Urban Renaissance ? An international comparison of urban regeneration strategies ' ' , London : Routledge ( ISBN 978-0-415-45682-1 ) * Long , C. , Shaw , K. and Merlo , C. ( Eds ) ( 2005 ) ' ' Suburban fantasies : Melbourne unmasked ' ' , Melbourne : Australian Scholarly Publishing ( ISBN 174097090X ) * Shaw , K ( Ed ) ( 1998 ) ' ' Planning practice 1998 : the best and worst examples of city planning and development ' ' , North Melbourne , Vic . : People 's Committee for Melbourne ( ISBN 0958571708 ) 