, MedlinePlus = 003278 The term lordosis refers to the normal inward curvature of the lumbar and cervical regions of the spine . Excessive or hyperlordosis can happen and lumbar hyperlordosis is commonly referred to as swayback or saddle back , a term that originates from the similar condition that arises in some horses . This condition can commonly affect dancers . A major factor of lordosis is forward pelvic tilt , when the pelvis tips forward when resting on top of the thighs . Curvature in the opposite direction is termed kyphosis. # Cause # Normal lordotic curvatures , also known as ' ' secondary ' ' curvatures results in a difference in the thickness between the front and back parts of the intervertebral disc . Lordosis may also increase at puberty sometimes not becoming evident until the early or mid-20s . Imbalances in muscle strength and length are also a cause , such as weak hamstrings , or tight hip flexors ( psoas ) . Other health conditions and disorders can cause lordosis . Achondroplasia ( a disorder where bones grow abnormally which can result in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ condition in which vertebrae slip forward ) and osteoporosis ( the most common bone disease in which bone density is lost resulting in bone weakness and increased likelihood of fracture ) are some of the most common causes of lordosis . Other causes include obesity , kyphosis ( spine curvature disorder in which the thoracic curvature is abnormally rounded ) , discitits ( an inflammation of the intervertebral disc space caused by infection ) and benign juvenile lordosis . Excessive lordotic curvature is also called hyperlordosis , hollow back , saddle back , and swayback . Common causes of excessive lordosis include tight low back muscles , excessive visceral fat , and pregnancy . Although lordosis gives an impression of a stronger back , incongruently it can lead to moderate to severe lower back pain . Rickets , a vitamin D deficiency in children , can cause lumbar lordosis. # Diagnosis # Measurement and diagnosis of lumbar lordosis can be difficult . Obliteration of vertebral end-plate landmarks by interbody fusion may make the traditional measurement of segmental lumbar lordosis more difficult . Because the L4-L5 and L5-S1 levels are most commonly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to normal lumbar lordosis , it is helpful to identify a reproducible and accurate means of measuring segmental lordosis at these levels . A visible sign of lordosis is an abnormally large arch of the lower back and the person appears to be puffing out his or her stomach and buttocks . Precise diagnosis of lordosis is done by looking at a complete medical history , physical examination and other tests of the patient . X-rays are used to measure the lumbar curvature , bone scans are conducted in order to rule out possible fractures and infections , magnetic resonance imaging ( MRI ) is used to eliminate the possibility of spinal cord or nerve abnormalities , and computed tomography scans ( CT scans ) are used to get a more detailed image of the bones , muscles and organs of the lumbar region . # Treatment # Lumbar lordosis may be treated by strengthening the hip extensors on the back of the thighs , and by stretching the hip flexors on the front of the thighs . Only the muscles on the front and on the back of the thighs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ standing position because they can discharge the force on the ground through the legs and feet . Abdominal muscles and erector spinae ca n't discharge force on an anchor point while standing , unless one is holding his hands somewhere , hence their function will be to flex or extend the torso , not the hip . Back hyper-extensions on a Roman chair or inflatable ball will strengthen all the posterior chain and will treat lordosis . So too will stiff legged deadlifts and supine hip lifts and any other similar movement strengthening the posterior chain ' ' without involving the hip flexors ' ' in the front of the thighs . Abdominal exercises could be avoided altogether if they stimulate too much the psoas and the other hip flexors . Strengthening of the hip extensors , which are on the back of the thighs , and optionally stretching of the hip flexors , which are on the front of the thighs , will be enough to treat a lordosis in quite a short time . Anti-inflammatory pain relievers may be taken as directed for short-term relief . Physical therapy effectively @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ kyphosis , lordosis , and bad posture . Hypo-lordosis is more common than hyper-lordosis . Hypo-lordosis can be corrected non-surgically through rehabilitation exercises . Many different techniques exist to accomplish this correction . These exercises , if done correctly , may reduce symptoms in those with the typical presentation in 3-6 months . This type of treatment is typically provided by a chiropractor , though some physical therapists offer it as well . Controversy regarding the degree to which manipulative therapy can help a patient still exists . If therapeutic measures reduce symptoms , but not the measurable degree of lordotic curvature , this could be viewed as a successful outcome of treatment , though based solely on subjective data . The presence of measurable abnormality does not automatically equate with a level of reported symptoms . # In animals # Lordosis can be also seen in animals , in particular horses and other equines . Usually called swayback , soft back , or low back , it is an undesirable conformation trait . Swayback is caused in part from a loss of muscle tone in both the back and abdominal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . As in humans , it may be influenced by bearing young ; it is sometimes seen in a broodmare that has had multiple foals . However , it is also common in older horses whose age leads to loss of muscle tone and stretched ligaments . It also occurs due to overuse or injury to the muscles and ligaments from excess work or loads , or from premature work placed upon an immature animal . Equines with too long a back are more prone to the condition than those with a short back , but as a longer back is also linked to smoother gaits , the trait is sometimes encouraged by selective breeding . It has been found to have a hereditary basis in the American Saddlebred breed , transmitted via a recessive mode of inheritance . Research into the genetics underlying the condition has several values beyond just the Saddlebred breed as it may serve as a model for investigating congenital skeletal deformities in horses and other species . # Other # Lordosis behavior refers to the position that some mammalian females ( including cats , mice , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( in heat ) . The term is also used to describe mounting behavior in mammalian males . In radiology , a lordotic view is an X-ray taken of a patient leaning backwards . Lordosis in the human spine makes it easier for humans to bring the bulk of their mass over the pelvis . This allows for a much more efficient walking gait than that of other primates , whose inflexible spines cause them to resort to an inefficient forward leaning bent-knee , bent-waist gait . As such , lordosis in the human spine is considered one of the primary physiological adaptations of the human skeleton that allows for human gait to be as energetically efficient as it is. 