Faxton is an abandoned village and chapelry in the county of Northamptonshire in England . Nearby are the villages of Old , Lamport and Mawsley and the Northampton &amp; Lamport Railway . It is believed that the name ' ' Faxton ' ' comes from the Scandinavian ' ' Fakr ' ' and the Anglo-Saxon ' ' tun ' ' , meaning ' ' Fakr 's Farm ' ' . This would indicate that Faxton grew from a Viking or Norse settler 's farmstead and therefore would date from approximately the 9th century The Domesday Book , naming Faxton as the Manor of ' ' Fextone ' ' , notes that the population was of approximately 60 to 80 people . The village is documented as having consisted of a church , a rectory , a hall , an aviary , almshouses and a number of ponds . Lady Danvers founded the parish 's almshouses for four persons and , six years later , Jane Kemsey bequeathed 100 to it . Archaeological evidence has been found of settlement at Faxton as early as around 1200 . It has @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in London in 1665 , a family relocated to Faxton with their servants , one of whom carried the fatal disease which spread and almost wiped out the village . However , this tale is disproved by comparing the number of householders recorded in the hearth tax lists for Faxton in years before and after that date . 30 householders were listed in 1662 , but 34 were recorded for the year ending 25 March 1674 . Former residents have recalled that Faxton could only be reached by horse-drawn vehicles , as none of the roads leading to it were made up to accommodate motor vehicles ; they considered that to be a major factor in the decline of the village . The parish church of St Denis suffered extensive vandalism during the early 20th century . It ceased to be used for public worship in 1939 and was demolished in 1958 . There is now just one house standing on this remote hilltop location , overlooking the rolling farmland . The Northamptonshire Record Office holds the christening , marriage and burial registers for the parish . # Sir Augustine Nichols @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Sir Augustine Nichols , a judge of the Court of Common Pleas under James I of England . He was a Knight of the Bath , born in Faxton in 1559 ; he died in 1616 . In 1610 , the Manor of Kibworth , Leicestershire was jointly granted to Augustine , Anthony Shugborough and John Smith after Ambrose Dudley , the Earl of Warwick , died without an heir . It is not clear what happened to the manor immediately after this , but by 1632 the manor was being held by the Berrige family . Judge Nichols had a clerk working for him . He was Thomas Dudley , a relation of the Nichols family . In 1627 Thomas Dudley , with his wife , daughter Anne , and her husband Simon Bradstreet , sailed for America . Dudley became Governor of Massachusetts as did Bradstreet later . Anne Bradstreet became America 's first female poet and is still thought to be one of its finest . Her poem ' ' To my dear and loving husband ' ' was set to music by Leonard Bernstein and performed at @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Augustine was positioned inside the parish church but it was smashed during the church 's demolition in 1958 . The Victoria and Albert Museum in London retrieved the pieces and spent three years restoring it to its former splendour . A legend is connected to the smashed memorial . It is claimed that a phantom , reputed to be that of Sir Augustine , has been seen since the demise of the church and his memorial . Judge Nichols was poisoned in 1616 by four women . They were related to a man who was to appear before Judge Nichols for murder . They thought that by killing the judge they could spare their relation from execution . 