The Lesser Antillean Macaw or Guadeloupe Macaw ( ' ' Ara guadeloupensis ' ' ) is a hypothetical extinct species of macaw which may have been endemic to the Lesser Antillean island of Guadeloupe . In spite of the absence of conserved specimens , many details about the Lesser Antillean Macaw are known from several contemporary accounts , and the bird is thought to be the subject of some illustrations . It is therefore one of the best-documented species of hypothetical extinct bird . Based on these accounts , Austin Hobart Clark named the species in 1905 . A parrot ulna from the island of Marie-Galante was assigned to the species in 2001 , but this identification has since been disputed . According to contemporary descriptions , the body was red and the wings were red , blue and yellow . The tail feathers were long . Apart from the smaller size and the all-red colouration of the tail feathers , it resembled the Scarlet Macaw of tropical South America and may therefore have been a close relative of that species , or possibly captive Scarlet Macaws which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ including those of the poisonous Manchineel tree , was monogamous , nested in trees and laid two eggs twice a year . Early writers described it as being abundant on Guadeloupe , but it was becoming rare by 1760 and only survived in uninhabited areas . Disease and hunting by humans are thought to have eradicated it shortly after . The Lesser Antillean Macaw is one of thirteen extinct macaw species hat have been proposed to have lived in the Caribbean islands . Many of these species are now considered dubious because only two are known from physical remains , and there are no extant endemic macaws on the islands today . Macaws were frequently transported between the Caribbean islands and the South American mainland in both prehistoric and historic times , so it is impossible to know whether contemporaneous reports refer to imported or native species . # Taxonomy # The Lesser Antillean Macaw is well-documented , in spite of the lack of any existing specimens , since it was mentioned and described by several contemporaneous writers . Red parrots thought to be the Lesser Antillean Macaw were first mentioned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in 1553 , referring to a 1496 account by Ferdinand Columbus , who mentioned parrots as big as chickens , which the Caribs called Guacamayas , on Guadeloupe . In 1774 , Comte de Buffon also stated that Christopher Columbus had found macaws on Guadeloupe . Jean-Baptiste Du Tertre gave the first detailed descriptions in 1654 and 1676 , and illustrated the bird and other animals found on Guadeloupe . Jean Baptiste Labat also described the bird in 1742 . Austin Hobart Clark gave the Lesser Antillean Macaw its scientific name , ' ' Ara guadeloupensis ' ' , in 1905 , based on the contemporaneous accounts , but he also cited a 1765 colour plate as possibly depicting this species . He wrote that it was different in several features from the superficially similar Scarlet Macaw ( ' ' Ara macao ' ' ) , as well as the Green-winged Macaw ( ' ' Ara chloropterus ' ' ) and the Cuban Macaw ( ' ' Ara tricolor ' ' ) . The ornithologist James Greenway wrote that the macaws reported from Guadeloupe could have been imported to the island @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to prove . According to the palaeontologist Julian Hume , its similarity to the Scarlet Macaw indicates that they are close relatives , and that the Guadeloupe species may have descended from the mainland macaw . Greenway believed the scarlet macaw and the Cuban macaw formed a superspecies with the Lesser Antillean macaw and other hypothetical extinct species suggested for Jamaica and Hispaniola . A small parrot ulna found on the Folle Anse archaeological site on Marie-Galante , an adjacent island , was assigned to the Lesser Antillean Macaw by the ornithologists Matthew Williams and David Steadman in 2001 . The ornithologists Storrs Olson and Edgar Maz Lpez cast doubt upon this identification , and proposed that the bone belonged to the extant Imperial Amazon ( ' ' Amazona imperialis ' ' ) . Its size and robustness was similar to ulnae of that species , and though it was worn , they identified what appeared to be a notch , which is also present on ulnae of the genus ' ' Amazona ' ' , but not in the genus ' ' Ara ' ' . In the same paper @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sympatric parrot , the Guadeloupe Amazon ( ' ' Amazona violacea ' ' ) , arguing it was also probably identical to the Imperial Amazon . Subfossil remains from the island of Montserrat have also been suggested to belong to the Lesser Antillean macaw. # Extinct Caribbean macaws # Macaws are known to have been transported between the Caribbean islands and from mainland South America both in historic times by Europeans and natives , and prehistoric times by Paleoamericans . Parrots were important in the culture of native Caribbeans , were traded between islands , and were among the gifts offered to Christopher Columbus when he reached the Bahamas in 1492 . It is therefore difficult to determine whether the numerous historical records of macaws on these islands mention distinct , endemic species , since they could have been escaped individuals or feral populations of foreign macaws of known species that had been transported there . As many as thirteen extinct macaws have at times been suggested to have lived on the islands until recently . Only two endemic Caribbean macaw species are known from physical remains ; the Cuban Macaw @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Saint Croix Macaw ( ' ' Ara autochthones ' ' ) , is only known from subfossils . No endemic Caribbean macaws remain today ; they were likely driven to extinction by humans in historic and prehistoric times . Many hypothetical extinct macaws were based only on contemporaneous accounts , but these species are considered dubious today . Several of them were named in the early 20th century by Walter Rothschild , who had a tendency to name species based on little tangible evidence . The Violet Macaw ( ' ' Anodorhynchus purpurascens ' ' ) was named for accounts of blue parrots also reported from Guadeloupe , the Red-headed Macaw ( ' ' Ara erythrocephala ' ' ) and the Jamaican Red Macaw ( ' ' Ara gossei ' ' ) were named for accounts of macaws on Jamaica , the Martinique Macaw ( ' ' Ara martinica ' ' ) from Martinique island and the Dominican Green-and-yellow Macaw ( ' ' Ara atwoodi ' ' ) was supposedly from Dominica island . The tail feathers of the Scarlet Macaw are long and have blue tips , and the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the tail feathers being shorter , it is not certain whether the Lesser Antillean Macaw was smaller than the Scarlet Macaw overall , as the relative proportions of body parts vary between macaw species . The tail feathers were longer than those of the Cuban Macaw , which were long . Du Tetre described the Lesser Antillean Macaw as follows in 1654 : Labat described the Lesser Antilles Macaw in much the same way in 1742 : Both authors wrote that the macaws were the largest parrots of Guadeloupe , and stressed that the parrot species of each Caribbean island was distinct and could be distinguished from each other visually and vocally . According to Hume , this means that the birds described could not simply have been escaped South American macaws . Furthermore , the docile and amiable nature described by Du Tetre and Labat does not match the behaviour of South American macaws. # Contemporary depictions # Apart from Du Tetre 's crude 1667 drawing and Labat 's 1722 derivative , a few contemporaneous paintings depict red macaws that may be the Lesser Antilles Macaw . A colour plate @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 12 , entitled L'Ara Rouge ) shows a red macaw with entirely red tail feathers and more red on the tertial and scapular feathers of the wing than are present on the Scarlet Macaw. # Behaviour and ecology # Du Tetre gave a detailed account of the behaviour of the Lesser Antillean Macaw in 1654 : In a 1667 work , Du Tetre gave a similar account , and also said that the macaw only ate the poisonous Manchineel fruits in times of necessary . He also described its reproductive behaviour : The twice-yearly breeding may have actually been staggered breeding , which is practised by some tropical birds . Clark wrote that the Lesser Antillean Macaw also occurred on Dominica and Martinique , but there is no evidence for this . It may instead have existed on islands close to Guadeloupe . # Extinction # In 1534 , Johann Huttich wrote that the forests of Guadeloupe were full of this macaw , which was apparently as abundant as grasshoppers , and the natives of the island cooked it together with human flesh and that of other birds . In 1654 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ eat , and that some considered it unpalatable and even poisonous . He wrote that he and the other inhabitants of the island often consumed it , and that he experienced no ill effects from it . He also stated that the natives wore the feathers as head decoration and as moustaches through the septum of the nose . He described how it was hunted by the natives : Since Du Tetre wrote that the macaws were prone to sickness , an outbreak of a disease , along with hunting , may have contributed to its demise . In 1760 , Mathurin Jacques Brisson quoted a letter by M. de la Borde , which stated that macaws had become very rare in the Antillean islands because they were hunted for food . By then they could by only be found in areas not frequented by man , and were probably extinct soon after . Parrots are often among the first species to be exterminated from a given locality , especially islands . 