Physical organic chemistry is the study of the relationship between structure and reactivity of organic molecules . More specifically , physical organic chemistry applies the experimental tools of physical chemistry to the study of the structure of organic molecules and provides a theoretical framework which interprets how structure influences both mechanisms and rates of organic reactions . It can be thought of as a subfield that bridges organic chemistry with physical chemistry . The term ' ' physical organic chemistry ' ' was itself coined by Louis Hammett in 1940 when he used the phrase as a title for his textbook . Physical organic chemists use both experimental and theoretical disciplines such as spectroscopy , spectrometry , crystallography , computational chemistry , and quantum theory to study both the rates of organic reactions and the relative chemical stability of the starting materials , transition states , and products . Chemists in this field work to understand the physical underpinnings of modern organic chemistry , and therefore physical organic chemistry has applications in specialized areas including polymer chemistry , supramolecular chemistry , electrochemistry , and photochemistry. # Chemical structure @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ tools of thermodynamics to study the bonding , stability , and energetics of chemical systems . This includes experiments to measure or determine the enthalpy ( H ) , entropy ( S ) , and Gibbs ' free energy ( G ) of a reaction , transformation , or isomerization . Chemists may use various chemical and mathematical analyses , such as a va n't Hoff plot , to calculate these values . Empirical constants such as bond dissociation energy , standard heat of formation ( H  f  ) , and heat of combustion ( H  c  ) are used to predict the stability of molecules and the change in enthalpy ( H ) through the course of the reactions . For complex molecules , a H  f  value may not be available but can be estimated using molecular fragments with known heats of formation . This type of analysis is often referred to as Benson group increment theory , after chemist Sidney Benson who spent a career developing the concept . The thermochemistry of reactive intermediates - carbocations , carbanions , and radicals is @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ data are available for radical systems . Carbocation and carbanion stabilities can be assessed using hydride ion affinities and pK  a  values , respectively . # Conformational analysis # One of the primary methods for evaluating chemical stability and energetics is conformational analysis . Physical organic chemists use conformational analysis to evaluate the various types of strain present in a molecule to predict reaction products . Strain can be found in both acyclic and cyclic molecules , manifesting itself in diverse systems as torsional strain , allylic strain , ring strain , and ' ' syn ' ' -pentane strain . A-values provide a quantitative basis for predicting the conformation of a substituted cyclohexane , an important class of cyclic organic compounds whose reactivity is strongly guided by conformational effects . The A-value is the difference in the Gibbs ' free energy between the axial and equatorial forms of substituted cyclohexane , and by adding together the A-values of various substituents it is possible to quantitatively predict the preferred conformation of a cyclohexane derivative . In addition to molecular stability , conformational analysis is used to predict reaction products @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ analysis is a bi-molecular elimination reaction ( E2 ) . This reaction proceeds most readily when the nucleophile attacks the species that is antiperiplanar to the leaving group . A molecular orbital analysis of this phenomenon suggest that this conformation provides the best overlap between the electrons in the R-H bonding orbital that is undergoing nucleophilic attack and the empty * antibonding orbital of the R-X bond that is being broken . By exploiting this effect , conformational analysis can be used to design molecules that possess enhanced reactivity . The physical processes which give rise to bond rotation barriers are complex , and these barriers have been extensively studied through experimental and theoretical methods . A number of recent articles have investigated the predominance of the steric , electrostatic , and hyperconjugative contributions to rotational barriers in ethane , butane , and more substituted molecules . # Non-covalent interactions # Chemists use the study of intramolecular and intermolecular non-covalent bonding/interactions in molecules to evaluate reactivity . Such interactions include , but are not limited to , hydrogen bonding , electrostatic interactions between charged molecules , dipole-dipole interactions , polar- and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ bonding . In addition , the hydrophobic effectthe association of organic compounds in wateris an electrostatic , non-covalent interaction of interest to chemists . The precise physical origin of the hydrophobic effect originates from many complex interactions , but it is believed to be the most important component of biomolecular recognition in water . For example , Xu and Melcher ' ' et al . ' ' elucidated the structural basis for folic acid recognition by folate acid receptor proteins . The strong interaction between folic acid and folate receptor was attributed to both hydrogen bonds and hydrophobic interactions . The study of non-covalent interactions is also used to study binding and cooperativity in supramolecular assemblies and macrocyclic compounds such as crown ethers and cryptands , which can act as hosts to guest molecules . # Acid-base chemistry # The properties of acids and bases are relevant to physical organic chemistry . Organic chemists are primarily concerned with Brnsted-Lowry acids/bases as proton donors/acceptors and Lewis acids/bases as electron acceptors/donors in organic reactions . Chemists use a series of factors developed from physical chemistry -- **27;214552;TOOLONG , bond strengths , resonance , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ basicities . The hard-soft acid-base principle is utilized to predict molecular interactions and reaction direction . In general , interactions between molecules of the same type are preferred . That is , hard acids will associate with hard bases , and soft acids with soft bases . The concept of hard acids and bases is often exploited in the synthesis of inorganic coordination complexes . # Kinetics # Physical organic chemists use the mathematical foundation of chemical kinetics to study the rates of reactions and reaction mechanisms . Unlike thermodynamics , which is concerned with the relative stabilities of the products and reactants ( G ) and their equilibrium concentrations , the study of kinetics focuses on the free energy of activation ( G   ) -- the difference in free energy between the reactant structure and the transition state structureof a reaction , and therefore allows a chemist to study the process of equilibration . Mathematically derived formalisms such as the Hammond Postulate , the Curtin-Hammett principle , and the theory of microscopic reversibility are often applied to organic chemistry . Chemists have also used the principle of thermodynamic @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ laws # The study of chemical kinetics is used to determine the rate law for a reaction . The rate law provides a quantitative relationship between the rate of a chemical reaction and the concentrations or pressures of the chemical species present . Rate laws must be determined by experimental measurement and generally can not be elucidated from the chemical equation . The experimentally determined rate law refers to the stoichiometry of the transition state structure relative to the ground state structure . Determination of the rate law was historically accomplished by monitoring the concentration of a reactant during a reaction through gravimetric analysis , but today it is almost exclusively done through fast and unambiguous spectroscopic techniques . In most cases , the determination of rate equations is simplified by adding a large excess ( flooding ) all but one of the reactants . # Catalysis # The study of catalysis and catalytic reactions is very important to the field of physical organic chemistry . A catalyst participates in the chemical reaction but is not consumed in the process . A catalyst lowers the activation energy barrier ( G  @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ either stabilizing the transition state structure or destabilizing a key reaction intermediate , and as only a small amount of catalyst is required it can provide economic access to otherwise expensive or difficult to synthesize organic molecules . Catalysts may also influence a reaction rate by changing the mechanism of the reaction . # Kinetic isotope effect # Although a rate law provides the stoichiometry of the transition state structure , it does not provide any information about breaking or forming bonds . The substitution of an isotope near a reactive position often leads to a change in the rate of a reaction . Isotopic substitution changes the potential energy of reaction intermediates and transition states because heavier isotopes form stronger bonds with other atoms . Atomic mass affects the zero-point vibrational state of the associated molecules , shorter and stronger bonds in molecules with heavier isotopes and longer , weaker bonds in molecules with light isotopes . Because vibrational motions will often change during a course of a reaction , due to the making and breaking of bonds , the frequencies will be affected , and the substitution of an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ law . # Substituent effects # The study of how substituents affect the reactivity of a molecule or the rate of reactions is of significant interest to chemists . Substituents can exert an effect through both steric and electronic interactions , the latter of which include resonance and inductive effects . The polarizability of molecule can also be affected . Most substituent effects are analyzed through linear free energy relationships ( LFREs ) . The most common of these is the Hammett Plot Analysis . This analysis compares the effect of various substituents on the ionization of benzoic acid with their impact on diverse chemical systems . The parameters of the Hammett plots are sigma ( ) and rho ( ) . The value of indicates the acidity of substituted benzoic acid relative to the unsubstituted form . A positive value indicates the compound is more acidic , while a negative value indicates that the substituted version is less acidic . The value is a measure of the sensitivity of the reaction to the change in substituent , but only measures inductive effects . Therefore , two new scales were produced @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ One is  +  , which concerns substituents that stabilize positive charges via resonance , and the other is  -  which is for groups that stabilize negative charges via resonance . Hammett analysis can be used to help elucidate the possible mechanisms of a reaction . For example , if it is predicted that the transition state structure has a build-up of negative charge relative to the ground state structure , then electron-donating groups would be expected to increase the rate of the reaction . Other LFRE scales have been developed . Steric and polar effects are analyzed through Taft Parameters . Changing the solvent instead of the reactant can provide insight into changes in charge during the reaction . The Grunwald-Winstein Plot provides quantitative insight into these effects . # Solvent effects # Solvents can have a powerful effect on solubility , stability , and reaction rate . A change in solvent can also allow a chemist to influence the thermodynamic or kinetic control of the reaction . Reactions proceed at different rates in different solvents due to the change in charge distribution during a chemical transformation @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ transition state structures . A prime example of the effect of solvent is the comparison of S  N  1 and S  N  2 reactions . Solvent can also have a significant effect on the thermodynamic equilibrium of a system . A common example of this is keto-enol tautomerization . In non-polar aprotic solvents , the enol form is strongly favored due to the formation of an intramolecular hydrogen-bond , while in polar aprotic solvents , such as methylene chloride , the enol form is less favored due to the interaction between the polar solvent and the polar diketone . In protic solvents , the equilibrium lies towards the keto form as the intramolecular hydrogen bond competes with hydrogen bonds originating from the solvent . A modern example of the study of solvent effects on chemical equilibrium can be seen in the study by Carlier et al . on the epimerization of chiral cyclopropylnitrile Grignard reagents . In this study it is shown that the equilibrium constant for the ' ' cis ' ' to ' ' trans ' ' isomerization of the Grignard reagent is much greaterthat @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ form is enhancedin THF over diethyl ether . However , the faster rate of ' ' cis to trans isomerization ' ' in THF results in a loss of stereochemical purity . The understanding of the molecular configuration of reagents such as these is particularly important for improved selectivity in asymmetric synthesis . # Quantum chemistry # Many aspects of the structure-reactivity relationship in organic chemistry can be rationalized through resonance , electron pushing , induction , the eight electron rule , and s-p hybridization , but these are only helpful formalisms and do not represent physical reality . Due to these limitations , a true understanding of physical organic chemistry requires a more rigorous approach grounded in particle physics . Quantum chemistry provides a rigorous theoretical framework capable of predicting the properties of molecules through calculation of a molecules electronic structure , and it has become a readily available tool in physical organic chemists in the form of popular software packages . The power of quantum chemistry is built on the wave model of the atom , in which the nucleus is a very small , positively charged sphere surrounded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ their associated wavefunction , an equation which contains all information associated with that particle . All information about the system is contained in the wavefunction . This information is extracted from the wavefunction through the use of mathematical operators . The energy associated with a particular wavefunction , perhaps the most important information contained in a wavefunction , can be extracted by solving the Schrdinger equation ( above , is the wavefunction , E is the energy , and is the Hamiltonian operator ) in which an appropriate Hamiltonian operator is applied . In the various forms of the Schrdinger equation , the overall size of a particles probability distribution increases with decreasing particle mass . For this reason , nuclei are of negligible size in relation to much lighter electrons and are treated as point charges in practical applications of quantum chemistry . Due to complex interactions which arise from electron-electron repulsion , algebraic solutions of the Schrdinger equation are only possible for systems with one electron such as the hydrogen atom , H  2   +  , H  3   2+  , etc. @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ familiar atomic ( s , p , d , f ) and bonding ( , ) orbitals . In systems with multiple electrons , an overall multielectron wavefunction describes all of their properties at once . Such wavefunctions are generated through the linear addition of single electron wavefunctions to generate an initial guess , which is repeatedly modified until its associated energy is minimized . Thousands of guesses are often required until a satisfactory solution is found , so such calculations are performed by powerful computers . Importantly , the solutions for atoms with multiple electrons give properties such as diameter and electronegativity which closely mirror experimental data and the patterns found in the periodic table . The solutions for molecules , such as methane , provide exact representations of their electronic structure which are unobtainable by experimental methods . Instead of four discrete -bonds from carbon to each hydrogen atom , theory predicts a set of four bonding molecular orbitals which are delocalized across the entire molecule . Similarly , the true electronic structure of 1,3-butadiene shows delocalized -bonding molecular orbitals stretching through the entire molecule rather than two isolated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ A complete electronic structure offers great predictive power for organic transformations and dynamics , especially in cases concerning aromatic molecules , extended systems , bonds between metal ions and organic molecules , molecules containing nonstandard heteroatoms like selenium and boron , and the conformational dynamics of large molecules such as proteins wherein the many approximations in chemical formalisms make structure and reactivity prediction impossible . An example of how electronic structure determination is a useful tool for the physical organic chemist is the metal-catalyzed dearomatization of benzene . Chromium tricarbonyl is highly electrophilic due to the withdrawal of electron density from filled chromium d-orbitals into antibonding CO orbitals , and is able to covalently bond to the face of a benzene molecule through delocalized molecular orbitals . The CO ligands inductively draw electron density from benzene through the chromium atom , and dramatically activate benzene to nucleophilic attack . Nucleophiles are then able to react to make hexacyclodienes , which can be used in further transformations such as Diels Alder cycloadditons . Quantum chemistry can also provide insight into the mechanism of an organic transformation without the collection of any experimental @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ given molecular state , guessed molecular geometries can be optimized to give relaxed molecular structures very similar to those found through experimental methods . Reaction coordinates can then be simulated , and transition state structures solved . Solving a complete energy surface for a given reaction is therefore possible , and such calculations have been applied to many problems in organic chemistry where kinetic data is unavailable or difficult to acquire . # Spectroscopy , spectrometry , and crystallography # Physical organic chemistry often entails the identification of molecular structure , dynamics , and the concentration of reactants in the course of a reaction . The interaction of molecules with light can afford a wealth of data about such properties through nondestructive spectroscopic experiments , with light absorbed when the energy of a photon matches the difference in energy between two states in a molecule and emitted when an excited state in a molecule collapses to a lower energy state . Spectroscopic techniques are broadly classified by the type of excitation being probed , such as vibrational , rotational , electronic , nuclear magnetic resonance ( NMR ) , and electron @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ structure determination is often aided by complementary data collected from X-Ray diffraction and mass spectrometric experiments . # NMR and EPR spectroscopy # One of the most powerful tools in physical organic chemistry is NMR spectroscopy . An external magnetic field applied to a paramagnetic nucleus generates two discrete states , with positive and negative spin values diverging in energy ; the difference in energy can then be probed by determining the frequency of light needed to excite a change in spin state for a given magnetic field . Nuclei that are not indistinguishable in a given molecule absorb at different frequencies , and the integrated peak area in an NMR spectrum is proportional to the number of nuclei responding to that frequency . It is possible to quantify the relative concentration of different organic molecules simply by integration peaks in the spectrum , and many kinetic experiments can be easily and quickly performed by following the progress of a reaction within one NMR sample . Proton NMR is often used by the synthetic organic chemist because protons associated with certain functional groups give characteristic absorption energies , but NMR spectroscopy @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , fluorine , phosphorus , boron , and a host of other elements . In addition to simple absorption experiments , it is also possible to determine the rate of fast atom exchange reactions through suppression exchange measurements , interatomic distances through multidimensional nuclear overhauser effect experiments , and through-bond spin-spin coupling through homonuclear correlation spectroscopy . In addition to the spin excitation properties of nuclei , it is also possible to study the properties of organic radicals through the same fundamental technique . Unpaired electrons also have a net spin , and an external magnetic field allows for the extraction of similar information through electron paramagnetic resonance ( EPR ) spectroscopy. # Vibrational spectroscopy # Vibrational spectroscopy , or infrared ( IR ) spectroscopy , allows for the identification of functional groups and , due to its low expense and robustness , is often used in teaching labs and the real-time monitoring of reaction progress in difficult to reach environments ( high pressure , high temperature , gas phase , phase boundaries ) . Molecular vibrations are quantized in an analogous manner to electronic wavefunctions , with integer increases in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ energy between vibrational states is nearly constant , often falling in the energy range corresponding to infrared photons , because at normal temperatures molecular vibrations closely resemble harmonic oscillators . It allows for the crude identification of functional groups in organic molecules , but spectra are complicated by vibrational coupling between nearby functional groups in complex molecules . Therefore , its utility in structure determination is usually limited to simple molecules . Further complicating matters is that some vibrations do not induce a change in the molecular dipole moment and will not be observable with standard IR absorption spectroscopy . These can instead be probed through Raman spectroscopy , but this technique requires a more elaborate apparatus and is less commonly performed . However , as Raman spectroscopy relies on light scattering it can be performed on microscopic samples such as the surface of a heterogeneous catalyst , a phase boundary , or on a one microliter ( L ) subsample within a larger liquid volume . The applications of vibrational spectroscopy are often used by astronomers to study the composition of molecular gas clouds , extrasolar planetary atmospheres , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ spectroscopy , or ultraviolet-visible ( UV-vis ) spectroscopy , is performed in the visible and ultraviolet regions of the electromagnetic spectrum and is useful for probing the difference in energy between the highest energy occupied ( HOMO ) and lowest energy unoccupied ( LUMO ) molecular orbitals . This information is useful to physical organic chemists in the design of organic photochemical systems and dyes , as absorption of different wavelengths of visible light give organic molecules color . A detailed understanding of an electronic structure is therefore helpful in explaining electronic excitations , and through careful control of molecular structure it is possible to tune the HOMO-LUMO gap to give desired colors and excited state properties . # #Mass spectrometry# # Mass spectrometry is a technique which allows for the measurement of molecular mass and offers complementary data to spectroscopic techniques for structural identification . In a typical experiment a gas phase sample of an organic material is ionized and the resulting ionic species are accelerated by an applied electric field into a magnetic field . The deflection imparted by the magnetic field , often combined with the time it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ then used to calculate the mass of the molecule . Often in the course of sample ionization large molecules break apart , and the resulting data show a parent mass and a number of smaller fragment masses ; such fragmentation can give rich insight into the sequence of proteins and nucleic acid polymers . In addition to the mass of a molecule and its fragments , the distribution of isotopic variant masses can also be determined and the qualitative presence of certain elements identified due to their characteristic natural isotope distribution . The ratio of fragment mass population to the parent ion population can be compared against a library of empirical fragmentation data and matched to a known molecular structure . Combined gas chromatography and mass spectrometry is used to qualitatively identify molecules and quantitatively measure concentration with great precision and accuracy , and is widely used to test for small quantities of biomolecules and illicit narcotics in blood samples . For synthetic organic chemists it is a useful tool for the characterization of new compounds and reaction products . # #Crystallography# # Unlike spectroscopic methods , X-ray crystallography always allows @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lengths totally unavailable through spectroscopy . It is often used in physical organic chemistry to provide an absolute molecular configuration and is an important tool in improving the synthesis of a pure enantiomeric substance . It is also the only way to identify the position and bonding of elements that lack an NMR active nucleus such as oxygen . Indeed , before x-ray structural determination methods were made available in the early 20th century all organic structures were entirely conjectural : tetrahedral carbon , for example , was only confirmed by the crystal structure of diamond , and the delocalized structure of benzene was confirmed by the crystal structure of hexamethylbenzene . While crystallography provides organic chemists with highly satisfying data , it is not an everyday technique in organic chemistry because a perfect single crystal of a target compound must be grown . Only complex molecules , for which NMR data can not be unambiguously interpreted , require this technique . In the example below , the structure of the host-guest complex would have been quite difficult to solve without a single crystal structure : there are no protons on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two halves of the organic complex spectroscopy alone was unable to prove the hypothesized structure . 