The Harrison P. Young House is a home in the Chicago suburb of Oak Park , Illinois , United States . The 1870s era building was remodeled extensively by famous American architect Frank Lloyd Wright , early in his career , in 1895 . The home 's remodeling incorporated elements that would later be found in Wright 's pioneering , early modern Prairie style . Some of the remodel work included setting the home back an additional 16 ft ( 4.88 m ) from the street and an overhanging porch over the driveway . The House is similar in some ways to Wright 's other early work and was influenced by his first teacher , Joseph Silsbee . The house is considered a contributing property to both a local and federally Registered Historic District . # Architecture # The Harrison P. Young House was first built during the 1870s for Harrison P. Young based upon a design by William E. Coman . In 1895 it was remodeled by famous American architect Frank Lloyd Wright for the same client . The Young House is atypical to the other design @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its steeply pitched roof is closely identified with some of his other early work . The Young House was perhaps most influenced by Wright 's design for the Nathan G. Moore House , which was designed during the same period in a Tudor Revival style . Wright 's 1895 remodel was significant and included structural modifications ; before any other work began the house was pushed back an additional 16 ft ( 4.88 m ) from the street . Following on , Wright affixed a large addition to the home , faced with narrow banded clapboarding ( found in much of Wright 's early work ) , the addition held a new living room , second-floor bedroom and a large porch . Wright 's sweeping , utilitarian porch overhangs , meant to allow access to the carriage during the rain , were cantilevered over the entry drive . It is the sweep of Wright 's eaves , throughout the remodel , that give the home a distinctly modern Wrightian character . The high-pitched gabled roof is reminiscent of the roof lines in the Irving Clark House in suburban LaGrange , Illinois @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of the house is bisected by another perpendicular gable . Both homes also feature prominent chimneys constructed from Roman brick . Chimneys such as these became hallmarks of Wright 's Prairie style work and of his work throughout his career . The large chimney is symbolic of the significance of the hearth in a warm , family-centered environment . In the Young House some of the elements that Wright would go to use in his signature early modern Prairie style are recognizable . The most obvious element which is immediately visible is the thin , narrow clapboarding , which provides some of the horizontal emphasis for which Prairie style is known . Other features are more representative of Wright 's earliest work with architect Joseph Silsbee , such as the soaring roof lines . # Significance # The house is most significant for the preview it gives of Wright 's Prairie style , and the home utilizes many elements that would later become an important part of that school . The house is also recognized by the United States federal government as a contributing property to the Frank Lloyd Wright-Prairie School @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ has its own , local version of the federal historic district and the Young House is part of that district as well . The federal Frank Lloyd Wright Historic District was added to the U.S. National Register of Historic Places on December 4 , 1973. 