Embryoid bodies ( EBs ) are three-dimensional aggregates of pluripotent stem cells . The pluripotent cell types that comprise embryoid bodies include embryonic stem cells ( ESCs ) derived from the blastocyst stage of embryos from mouse ( mESC ) , primate , and human ( hESC ) sources . Additionally , EBs can be formed from embryonic stem cells derived through alternative techniques , including somatic cell nuclear transfer or the reprogramming of somatic cells to yield induced pluripotent stem cells ( iPS ) . Similar to ESCs cultured in monolayer formats , ESCs within embryoid bodies undergo differentiation and cell specification along the three germ lineages endoderm , ectoderm , and mesoderm which comprise all somatic cell types . In contrast to monolayer cultures , however , the spheroid structures that are formed when ESCs aggregate enables the non-adherent culture of EBs in suspension , making EB cultures inherently scalable , which is useful for bioprocessing approaches , whereby large yields of cells can be produced for potential clinical applications . Additionally , although EBs largely exhibit heterogeneous patterns of differentiated cell types , ESCs are @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Therefore , the three-dimensional structure , including the establishment of complex cell adhesions and paracrine signaling within the EB microenvironment , enables differentiation and morphogenesis which yields microtissues that are similar to native tissue structures . Such microtissues are promising to directly or indirectly repair damaged or diseased tissue in regenerative medicine applications , as well as for in vitro testing in the pharmaceutical industry and as a model of embryonic development . # Formation of EBs # EBs are formed by the homophilic binding of the Ca2+ dependent adhesion molecule E-cadherin , which is highly expressed on undifferentiated ESCs . When cultured as single cells in the absence of anti-differentiation factors , ESCs spontaneously aggregate to form EBs . Such spontaneous formation is often accomplished in bulk suspension cultures whereby the dish is coated with non-adhesive materials , such as agar or hydrophilic polymers , to promote the preferential adhesion between single cells , rather than to the culture substrate . As hESC undergo apoptosis when cultured as single cells , EB formation often necessitates the use of inhibitors of the rho associated kinase ( ROCK ) pathway , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Thiazovivin/Tzv ) . Alternatively , to avoid dissociation into single cells , EBs can be formed from hESCs by manual separation of adherent colonies ( or regions of colonies ) and subsequently cultured in suspension . Formation of EBs in suspension is amenable to the formation of large quantities of EBs , but provides little control over the size of the resulting aggregates , often leading to large , irregularly shaped EBs . As an alternative , the hydrodynamic forces imparted in mixed culture platforms increase the homogeneity of EB sizes when ESCs are inoculated within bulk suspensions . Formation of EBs can also be more precisely controlled by the inoculation of known cell densities within single drops ( 10-20 L ) suspended from the lid of a Petri dish , known as hanging drops . While this method enables control of EB size by altering the number of cells per drop , the formation of hanging drops is labor-intensive and not easily amenable to scalable cultures . Additionally , the media can not be easily exchanged within the traditional hanging drop format , necessitating the transfer of hanging drops into @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ individual EBs tend to agglomerate . Recently , new technologies have been developed to enable media exchange within a modified hanging drop format . In addition , technologies have also been developed to physically separate cells by forced aggregation of ESCs within individual wells or confined on adhesive substrates , which enables increased throughput , controlled formation of EBs . Ultimately , the methods used for EB formation may impact the heterogeneity of EB populations , in terms of aggregation kinetics , EB size and yield , as well as differentiation trajectories . # Differentiation within EBs # Within the context of ESC differentiation protocols , EB formation is often used as a method for initiating spontaneous differentiation toward the three germ lineages . EB differentiation begins with the specification of the exterior cells toward the primitive endoderm phenotype . The cells at the exterior then deposit extracellular matrix ( ECM ) , containing collagen IV and laminin , similar to the composition and structure of basement membrane . In response to the ECM deposition , EBs often form a cystic cavity , whereby the cells in contact with the basement @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , resulting in a fluid-filled cavity surrounded by cells . Subsequent differentiation proceeds to form derivatives of the three germ lineages . In the absence of supplements , the default differentiation of ESCs is largely toward ectoderm , and subsequent neural lineages . However , alternative media compositions , including the use of fetal bovine serum as well as defined growth factor additives , have been developed to promote the differentiation toward mesoderm and endoderm lineages . As a result of the three-dimensional EB structure , complex morphogenesis occurs during EB differentiation , including the appearance of both epithelial- and mesenchymal-like cell populations , as well as the appearance of markers associated with the epithelial-mesenchymal transition ( EMT ) . Additionally , the inductive effects resulting from signaling between cell populations in EBs results in spatially and temporally defined changes , which promote complex morphogenesis . Tissue-like structures are often exhibited within EBs , including the appearance of blood islands reminiscent of early blood vessel structures in the developing embryo , as well as the patterning of neurite extensions ( indicative of neuron organization ) and spontaneous contractile activity ( indicative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ substrates such as gelatin . More recently , complex structures , including optic cup-like structures were created in vitro resulting from EB differentiation . # Parallels with embryonic development # Much of the research central to embryonic stem cell differentiation and morphogenesis is derived from studies in developmental biology and mammalian embryogenesis . For example , immediately after the blastocyst stage of development ( from which ESCs are derived ) , the embryo undergoes gastrulation , whereby cell specification of the inner cell mass results in the formation of the visceral endoderm and epiblast . As the anterior-posterior axis is formed , the embryo develops a transient structure known as the primitive streak . Much of the spatial patterning that occurs during the formation and migration of the primitive streak results from the secretion of agonists and antagonists by various cell populations , including the growth factors from the Wnt and transforming growth factor ( TGF ) families ( Lefty 1 , Nodal ) , as well as repressors of the same molecules ( Dkk-1 , Sfrp1 , Sfrp5 ) . Due to the similarities between embryogenesis and ESC differentiation , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ differentiation approaches . # Challenges to directing differentiation in EBs # In contrast to the differentiation of ESCs in monolayer cultures , whereby the addition of soluble morphogens and the extracellular microenvironment can be precisely and homogeneously controlled , the three-dimensional structure of EBs poses challenges to directed differentiation . For example , the visceral endoderm population which forms the exterior of EBs , creates an exterior shell consisting of tightly connected epithelial-like cells , as well as a dense ECM . Due to such physical restrictions , in combination with EB size , transport limitations occur within EBs , creating gradients of morphogens , metabolites , and nutrients . It has been estimated that oxygen transport is limited in cell aggregates larger than approximately 300 m in diameter ; however , the development of such gradients are also impacted by molecule size and cell uptake rates . Therefore , the delivery of morphogens to EBs results in increased heterogeneity and decreased efficiency of differentiated cell populations compared to monolayer cultures . One method of addressing transport limitations within EBs has been through polymeric delivery of morphogens from within the EB @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ microtissues and subsequently assembled into larger structures for tissue engineering applications . Although the complexity resulting from the three-dimensional adhesions and signaling may recapitulate more native tissue structures , it also creates challenges for understanding the relative contributions of mechanical , chemical , and physical signals to the resulting cell phenotypes and morphogenesis. # Impact of ethics and policy on EB research # ESCs are the subject of much public debate due to the ethical questions arising from the derivation from blastocyst-stage of development , necessitating the destruction of the embryo . Although much early EB research was conducted using ESCs derived from mouse sources , cell lines derived from human sources are necessary to fulfill the clinical promise of ESCs . While current U.S. regulations , initiated by the executive order of President Barack Obama in 2009 allow federal funding for hESC lines that are approved by the National Institutes of Health ( NIH ) , the derivation of new hESC lines using federal funding is prohibited by the Dickey-Wicker Amendment . However , due to the association of EB research with ESCs , the long term outcomes of EB @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ policy changes . EBs however , are amenable to the use of alternative pluripotent cell sources , such as iPS cells , which holds promise for future applications in three-dimensional stem cell differentiation . 