Chteauneuf-en-Thymerais is a commune Eure-et-Loir department in northern France . The commune was once an important stronghold reigning over the whole natural and historic province of Thymerais . Born of the fierce determination of his first lords to face the threat weighed the Duke of Normandy on the Kingdom of France , and devastated much debated over the ages , the castle was eventually demolished , but the city remained . It gradually lost its importance and the feud was the center of which she was dismembered so that it became a barony in the eighteenth century was far from having the same extend in the thirteenth century . The city known since the end of second war a fragile revival by taking advantage of its location due to its proximity to Paris and employment areas of Chartres and Dreux . She managed to attract some industrial enterprises to retain part of its business while achieving a low but steady demographic development . Already head of Canton , belonging to the Country Drouais the city became in 2003 the center of the Community of communes of Thymerais. # @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to its neighbor Thimert , Chateauneuf-en-Thymerais is located south of Normandy and Drouais , west and north of the Beauce and Chartrain and east of the Perche . The city was built following the vicissitudes of history in a forested area called , around 600 or even at a much earlier period , the Perche . This designation did not yet apply to the early eleventh century to the political or administrative divisions . However , the woodland was divided between the Perche County Corbon ( Mortagne ) , the Barony of Chateauneuf , the county and the bishopric of Chartres , the Viscount of Chateaudun and County Vendome . Progressive clearing of this forest was back up the pole and left the Thymerais . Crossroads , the town is now a chief of the canton and the center of the Community of common Thymerais. # History # In 1058 , Albert Ribaud , lord of Thymerais , who took a stand against William the Conqueror , Duke of Normandy and future king of England , the latter seized Thimert and left there a governor , but the following year , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ castle and razed . It was reconstructed by Gaston , brother of Albert Ribaud built a short distance in a clearing in the woods , a fort named Chastel-neuf . It was formed around a village of the same name , which soon became the capital of Thymerais . From a standpoint feudal , in 1200 the Thymerais formed one great fief whose center was Chteauneuf-en-thymerais . The Chtellerie Chteauneuf-en-Thymerais covered an area roughly bounded by the north Avre river and Eure River south and east . The Chtellerie covered more than 80 villages within these limits but also villages in Eure : Acon , Armentieres-sur-Avre in **30;71910;TOOLONG , Saint-Victor-sur-Avre , and the Department of Orne : Charencey , Moussonvilliers , Normandel and La Trinite-sur-Avre , all in Township of Tourouvre . Hughes who married Mabile , daughter of Roger de Montgomery and Mabile de Bellme , gave asylum to Chteauneuf , Robert Courteheuse , rebelled against his father after a quarrel with his brothers and the failure to take the Castle of Rouen . William the Conqueror came to then , in 1078 , the headquarters of Regmalard , which @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of Perche , Count of Mortagne , lord of Regmalard . The castle was sacked in 1169 by King Henry I of England , following the destruction of Chennebrun , located on the left bank of the Avre the previous year by the King of France . The castle was again attacked by Henry II of England , who burned the fortress , but it was rebuilt in 1189 by Hughes III du Chatel , lord of Thymerais . Hughes III received the castle of King Louis VII of France on the occasion of the inauguration of the fair of Saint-Jacques Boutaincourt . St. Thomas Chapel was built at that time in the suburbs of the town ( now St Thomas Road between Chartres and those of Nogent-le-Roi ) . Closed for worship since the French Revolution , she was raised in honor of St. Thomas Becket , Archbishop of Cantorby . In 1269 , King Louis IX of France or St. Louis , came to Thimert went to the castle of Chateauneuf . At that time , a major exhibition under the patronage of Saint-Arnoult , held in July in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chateauneuf was erected in 1314 in peerage barony-vassal of the Kingdom of France , under the Tower of the Louvre . The barony was then composed of four castellanies : Chateauneuf , Brezolles , Senonches and Champrond en Gtine . The lordship of Champrond en Gastine was acquired in June 1310 by Charles I Count of Alenon and Perche , through an exchange with Enguerrand de Marigny , the king 's chamberlain , and Havis de Mons , his wife , who held it for Gaucher de Chatillon , Comte de Ponthieu . The barony of Chateauneuf-en-Thimerais stayed home Alenon until its extinction in 1525 with Charles IV of Alenon . During the Hundred Years War , the Bourguignons , under the command of Marchal de Longny took the city . Recovery thereafter , she was again captured by Warwick in 1418 , and Henry V of England installed there one of his lieutenants . The city was finally taken over by Jean II , Duke of Alenon after the battle of Verdun in 1424 . Later , Henry IV of France establishes a baillage in the early seventeenth century . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to Chateauneuf and stayed three days at the castle . On the death of Charles IV of Alenon in 1525 , the king seize their land , most of whom had been given to its prerogative and ancestors had , for lack of male descendants , return to the Crown under the law of appendages . But the barony of Chateauneuf was not part of the prerogative of the Duc d'Alencon . Count Charles II of Alenon had inherited the barony third of his brother Louis , Count of Chartres , by sharing in 1335 and Pierre II of Alenon had acquired the other two thirds in 1370 , finally was acquired by Champrond Charles , in 1310 , and the two sisters of the Duke Charles , Franoise of Alenon , wife of Charles IV de Bourbon , duke of Vendome , and Anne of Alenon , Marquise of Montferrat , opposed the seizure by the king of the assets of their brother . There followed a trial that was not completed until 1563 by a double transaction between King Charles IX of France and the descendants of Anne and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ restoring the barony of Chateauneuf-in-Thimerais . This was divided among the heirs of Franoise d'Alenon , who took Champrond and Chateauneuf and Louis de Gonzague , grand-son of Anne of Alenon , Marquise of Montferrat ( now the same year by the Duke of Nivernais marriage with Henriette of Cleves ) received the cities , towns and castellanies Senonches and Brezolles en Thimerais who were distracted from the barony of Chteauneuf . In February 1500 King Charles IX was erected and the lordships of Brezolles Senonches , sold under the name in the principality of Mantua , in favor of Louis de Gonzague , father of Charles and were erected into a principality under the name of Mantua . In 1591 , the Comte de Soissons , plundered the castle along with those of Arpentigny and La Ferte-Vidame . The castle was never rebuilt and returned to the royal domain Chteauneuf annexe and lords who resided Maillebois until about half of the eighteenth century . The stronghold was Thymerais meanwhile gradually dismantled so that by the late eighteenth century the barony of Chateauneuf-en-Thymerais was nowhere near the same extent in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Chteauneuf dependence of the election of Verneuil-sur-Avre and generality of Alencon . She was chief town of the district from 1790 to 1795 . She took the name of Puy-la-Montagne to the revolutionary era . The last traces of the castle moat , were gradually filled during the nineteenth century . The last traces of them were erased in the first half of the twentieth century to make way for new roads ( including street of Pont Tabarin , street of Petite Friche and Street Dulorens ) . In the twentieth century the city had to suffer bombardment during the year 1940 . The war was over , Chateauneuf saw the arrival of families of U.S. soldiers housed in a subdivision south of the city and worked for many of them on the U.S. air base south of Crucey Brezolles . They left in 1966 when the subtraction of French forces in integrated military command of NATO decided by De Gaulle in fact expelling U.S. bases in the territory . # Population # 