Stefan Lochner ( 1400 or 1410 &amp;ndash ; 1451 ) was a German painter working in the late Gothic style . He was active in Cologne , Germany , and is best known for the ' ' Altar of the City Patrons ' ' triptych , painted for the Town Hall chapel in the 1440s and now in Cologne Cathedral . Lochner was one of the most important German artist before Albrecht Drer ; an artist who held Lochner in great esteem and is most identified with continuing his legacy . Lochner was one the last major painters working in the soft style ( ' ' weicher still ' ' ) of the International Gothic tradition . His work is known for its clean appearance , virtuoso surface textures , and innovative iconography . He was praised by Friedrich Schlegel and Goethe for the sweetness and grace of his Madonna portraits . His paintings combine a Gothic tendency towards long flowing lines in brilliant colours with a Flemish-influenced realism and attention to detail . Lochner 's compositions often include fanciful angels , singing and playing musical instruments . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of monumental works . He seems to have had knowledge of metal work , given his realistic deceptions of objects such as the Magi 's gifts in the Cologne altarpiece. # Life # The known details of Lochner life are extremely scant . He is thought to have come from Meersburg , near Lake Constance , as his parents , Georg and Alhet , are recorded as having died there in 1451 . However his style bears no traces of the art of that region . His talent was recognised from an early age , and he trained as a painter in the Netherlands under a master whose name is now lost . While there he may have been influenced by the work of Jan van Eyck and Rogier van der Weyden ; elements of their styles can be detected in his later works , although neither is thought to be the master under whom he had studied . Lochner had moved to Cologne by 1442 , when he was commissioned by the city council for decorations in connection with the celebration of the visit of Emperor Frederick III . He @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the city , were he was known as Maister Steffan . Lochner bought a house around 1442 with his wife Lysbeth ; in 1444 he was able to afford to sell it for a larger property near Saint Alban Church . He was elected town councilor by the painters ' guild in 1447 and 1450 . Around 1447 he seems to have encountered financial difficulties , forcing him to re-mortgage his house . There are no surviving records of him after Christmas 1451 ; his parents died at the end of that year and it is known he was unable to travel to Meersburg to attend to their will and estate . It is presumed he was then already ill and died shortly thereafter . Cologne was undergoing an outbreak of plague that year , and the area Lochner was living in was particularly affected ; however it is not know if this was his cause of death . # Work # There are no signed paintings by Lochner , and no works were attributed to the historical person until J.F. Bhmer identified him with the painter of the ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ article published in 1823 . He based his attribution on a mention of a visit to Cologne in 1520 in the diary of Albrecht Drer , during a recount of the earlier artist paying to see an altarpiece by Maister Steffan . Bhmer identified this as the ' ' Altar of the City Patrons ' ' , and Maister Steffan as the documented Stefan Lochner . Over the years , on stylistic grounds , others paintings have been attributed to him , however in recent years some art historians have questioned that the diary entry was authentically made by Drer . He gave his figures the common idealised facial features traditional of early medieval portraiture , esdically his female subjects have the usual high foreheads , long noses , small rounded chins , tucked blond curls and prominent ears typically of late gothic , he sets these rather traditional characters within innovative and highly active , monumental settings ; the main feature that defines his work as superior . Lochner 's major works were polyptychs which , like many 15th century religious pieces , were over the centuries , broken apart @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ There are two dated versions of the ' ' Presentation in the Temple ' ' , one in the Calouste Gulbenkian Museum ( 1445 ) and another in the Hessisches Landesmuseum , Darmstadt ( 1447 ) ; two wings from an altarpiece , with images of saints ( now in the National Gallery , are in London and the Wallraf-Richartz Museum , Cologne ) , and an altarpiece from the church of St. Lorenz , is now divided between three museums . His Last Judgement is divided between Cologne , Munich and Frankfurt . A number of drawings have been associated with him , but only one , a c.1450 brush and ink on paper ' ' Virgin and Child ' ' , now in the Musee du Louvre , is attributed with confidence . **49;44175;gallery File:Stefan Lochner 002. jpgLeft panel , ' ' Altarpiece of the Patron Saints of Cologne ' ' , c 1440-15 File:Stefan Lochner 003. jpgCenter panel , ' ' Altarpiece of the Patron Saints of Cologne ' ' , c 1440-15 File:Stefan Lochner 004. jpgRight panel , ' ' Altarpiece of the Patron Saints of Cologne @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' ' , 1445 . Alte Pinakothek , Munich File:Lochner Marie Madeleine.jpg ' ' Mary Magdalen ' ' , diptych wing , c 1448-50 . Museum Boijmans Van Beuningen , Rotterdam File:Stefan Lochner - Presentation of Christ in the Temple ( detail ) - WGA13348.jpgDetail : ' ' Presentation of Christ in the Temple ' ' , c 1447 . Hessisches Landesmuseum Darmstadt , Darmstadt File:Stefan Lochner - Hll . Katharina , Hubertus und Quirinus ( Weltgerichtsaltar ) . jpeg ' ' Katharina , Hubertus und Quirinus ' ' , c. 1445 . Alte Pinakothek , Munich File:Stefan Lochner - Sts Mark , Barbara and Luke - WGA13350.jpg ' ' Saints Mark , Barbara and Luke ' ' , 1445-50 . Wallraf-Richartz Museum , Cologne File:Stefan Lochner - Presentation of Christ in the Temple - WGA13347.jpg ' ' Presentation of Christ in the Temple ' ' , c 1447 . Hessisches Landesmuseum Darmstadt File:Stefan Lochner 007. jpg ' ' Madonna in the Rose Bower ' ' , c 1448 . Wallraf-Richartz Museum , Cologne  