The Tara Brooch is a Celtic brooch of about 700 AD generally considered to be the most impressive of over 50 elaborate Irish brooches to have been discovered . It was found in 1850 and rapidly recognised as one of the most important works of early Christian Irish Insular art ; it is now displayed in the National Museum of Ireland in Dublin . # History # Created in about 700 AD , the seven-inch long pseudo-penannular brooch is composed primarily of silver-gilt and is embellished with intricate abstract decoration including interlace on both front and back . It was made in many pieces , with much of the decoration on small trays or panels which were then fixed into place . When it was found only one panel of decoration was missing , but several more have now disappeared , apparently before 1872 , when it entered the collection of the Royal Irish Academy , who later transferred their collection of antiquities to the new National Museum . The design , the techniques of workmanship ( including filigree and inlaying ) and the gold , silver , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and exemplify the advanced state of goldsmithing in Ireland in the seventh century . The brooch has a pseudo-penannular form . Like most brooches of the period , it contains neither Christian nor pagan religious motifs , and was made for a wealthy patron , almost certainly male , who wanted a personal expression of status . It is probably the most spectacular , and one of the best preserved , of several dozen high-status brooches found in Britain or Ireland , but mostly in Ireland . Although similar in style , each has a completely individual design in detail . Precious metals are used , but only semiprecious stones . Although the brooch is named after the Hill of Tara , traditionally seen as the seat of the High Kings of Ireland , the Tara Brooch has no connection to either the Hill of Tara or the High Kings of Ireland . The brooch was supposedly found in August 1850 on the beach at Bettystown , near Laytown , County Meath , some 50 km ( 30 mi ) north of Dublin . The finder , a peasant woman @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ found it in a box buried in the sand , though many think it was in fact found inland and she claimed it was found at the beach to avoid a legal claim by the landowner . It was sold to a dealer and then to the Dublin jeweller George Waterhouse who was already producing Celtic Revival jewellery and who renamed it the Tara Brooch to make it more appealing . Celtic Revival jewellery had become very fashionable over the previous decade , and the discovery of the brooch could hardly have been better timed from this point of view . The brooch was immediately recognised as the culminating masterpiece ( though early in date ) of the Irish development of large and superbly worked ornate brooches , a status it has retained ever since . Waterhouse used it as the centre of displays of his replicas and imitations of Celtic brooches in his Dublin shop , also exhibiting it at The Great Exhibition in London in 1851 and the Paris Exposition Universelle , as well as the Dublin exhibition visited by the Queen in 1853 ( Victoria had already seen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ for her inspection ) . Waterhouse had invented the brooch 's name , choosing to link it to the site associated with the High Kings of Ireland , fully aware that this would feed the Irish middle-class fantasy of being descended from them . By the time the brooch passed to what is now the National Museum of Ireland in the 1870s , Tara brooch had become a generic term for Celtic Revival brooches , some of which were now being made by Indian workshops for export to Europe . 