Anita Ondine Smith ( born 16 March 1974 ) is an Australian-British transmedia storyteller. # Biography # Born in Sydney , Australia , Anita is the daughter of Anka Makovec , a Slovene artist and Albert Arthur Smith , an Australian carpenter . After a short period living in the former Yugoslavia Anita and her mother moved to Tasmania , where they became deeply involved in the largest environmental battle in Australian history - the battle to save the Franklin River from being dammed . The Tasmanian Dam Case ( Commonwealth v Tasmania ) , was a landmark decision in Australian constitutional law . After years of protests and grass roots action led by Dr Bob Brown ( former Senator and Leader of the Australian Greens ) , the High Court of Australia decided that the federal law protecting the Franklin River was valid , 4 votes to 3 . Anita graduated with Honours in Law from the Australian National University , where she specialized in intellectual property , technology and international law . Her graduating thesis was entitled Lex Cybertoria : International Law and Copyright on the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ National University in Political Science . While working as a technology lawyer in 1998 for Freehills and an IBM subsidiary , Anita wrote a book called The Millennium Bomb Disposal Kit about the impact of technology on business and for several years was a frequent speaker at international conferences such as TTI/Vanguard , on the intersection of law and technology . Anita moved from Australia to London , England in 1999 , where she worked for Shaw Pittman ( now Pillsbury Winthrop Shaw Pittman ) on complex technology outsourcing transactions as well as cutting edge internet advisory work , with clients including Reuters . Still in the City of London , Anita worked for Lehman Brothers from 2000 to 2006 in legal , operational risk and executive management functions and held the position of Senior Vice President . Anita was a key organizer in raising awareness of disability issues at the firm , including writing and directing a short film entitled Disability Diversity at Lehman Brothers . Anita was also on the Board of Trustees for the Disability Equality in Education charitable trust . After a decade in law and business @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ co-producing the dark comedy feature film Drop Dead Gorgeous , written and directed by Philip Alderton . As the independent film industry faced combined challenges from the Financial crisis of 200708 and audiences turning to multi-screen , online and mobile viewing , Anita shifted focus to the emerging field of ' ' transmedia ' ' . Anita collaborated on several projects with renowned transmedia pioneer Lance Weiler through their production company , Seize the Media . Most significantly , Anita Executive Produced Lance Weilers transmedia story experience Pandemic 1.0 and produced the companion short film Pandemic 41.410806 , -75.654259 , which premiered in competition at the 2011 Sundance Film Festival and via a US cable network reaching 28 million homes . # Current work # Anita is Director at Transmedia Next , the ' ' transmedia ' ' production , consulting and training company , based in London , UK and active worldwide . Anita currently serves as a Board Member of Screen Tasmania , the government agency responsible for funding film , television and digital media in Tasmania , and is an occasional contributor to the Transmedia Coalition ' Expert @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ via her company , Touch Light Media . Anita has an ongoing artistic collaboration with American singer and performance artist Rodleen Getsic . John Perry Barlow , co-founder of the Electronic Frontier Foundation and former lyricist for the Grateful Dead is a member of the Touch Light Media Advisory Board . 