A package tour or package holiday consists of transport and accommodation advertised and sold together by a vendor known as a tour operator . Other services may be provided such a rental car , activities or outings during the holiday . Transport can be via charter airline to a foreign country , and may also include travel between areas as part of the holiday . Package holidays are a form of product bundling . Package holidays are organised by a tour operator and sold to a consumer by a travel agent . Some travel agents are employees of tour operators , others are independent . # Organised tours # The first organised tours dated back to Thomas Cook who , on 5 July 1841 , chartered a train to take a group of temperance campaigners from Leicester to a rally in Loughborough , eleven miles away . By 1872 he was undertaking world-wide tours , albeit with small groups . His company , Thomas Cook &amp; Son ( commonly called Thomas Cook or simply Cook 's ) , grew to become one of the largest and most well @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the gradual decline of visits to British seaside resorts after the Second World War , Thomas Cook &amp; Son began promoting foreign holidays ( particularly Italy , Spain , and Switzerland ) in the early 1950s . Information films were shown at town halls throughout Britain . However they made a costly decision by not going into the new form of cheap holidays which combined the transport and accommodation arrangements into a single ' package ' . The company went further into decline and were only rescued by a consortium buy-out on 26 May 1972. # Package tours # Vladimir Raitz , the co-founder of the Horizon Holiday Group , pioneered the first mass package holidays abroad with charter flights between Gatwick airport and Corsica in 1950 , and organised the first package holiday to Palma in 1952 , Lourdes in 1953 , and the Costa Brava and Sardinia in 1954 . In addition , the amendments made in Montreal to the Convention on International Civil Aviation on June 14 , 1954 was very liberal to Spain , allowing impetus for mass tourism using charter planes . By the late 1950s @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ flight , transfers , and accommodation -- provided the first chance for most people in the United Kingdom to have affordable travel abroad . One of the first charter airlines was Euravia , which commenced flights from Manchester Airport in 1961 and Luton Airport in 1962 . Despite opening up mass tourism to Crete and the Algarve in 1970 , the package tour industry declined during the 1970s . On 15 August 1974 , the industry was shaken when the second-largest tour operator , Court Line which operated under the brand names of Horizon and Clarksons , collapsed . Nearly 50,000 tourists were stranded overseas and a further 100,000 faced the loss of booking deposits . In 2005 a growing number of consumers were avoiding package holidays and were instead travelling with budget airlines and booking their own accommodation . In the UK , the downturn in the package holiday market led to the consolidation of the tour operator market , which is now dominated by a few large tour operators . The major operators are Thomson Holidays and First Choice part of TUI AG and Thomas Cook AG . Under @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ holiday operators catering to different markets , such as Club 18-30 or Simply Travel . Budget airlines have also created their own package holiday divisions such as Jet2 Holidays . The trend for package holiday bookings saw a comeback in 2009 , as customers sought greater financial security in the wake of a number of holiday and flight companies going bust , and as the hidden costs of ' no-frills ' flights increased . Coupled with the search for late holidays as holidaymakers left booking to the last moment , this led to a rise in consumers booking package holidays . # Dynamic packaging # Dynamic packaging is a method that is becoming increasingly used in package holiday booking procedures that enables consumers to build their own package of flights , accommodation , and rental car instead of a pre-defined package. cite web 