Atlantic history is a specialty field in history that studies of the Atlantic World in the early modern period . It is premised on the idea that , following the rise of sustained European contact with the New World in the 16th century , the continents that bordered the Atlantic Ocean -- the Americas , Europe , and Africa -- constituted a regional system or common sphere of economic and cultural exchange that can be studied as a totality . Its theme is the complex interaction between Europe ( Britain , France , the Iberian Peninsula ) and the New World colonies . It encompasses a wide range of demographic , social , economic , political , legal , military , intellectual and religious topics treated in comparative fashion by looking at both sides of the Atlantic . Religious revivals characterized Britain and Germany , as well as the First Great Awakening in the American colonies . Migration and race/slavery have been important topics . Practitioners of Atlantic history typically focus on the interconnections and exchanges between these regions and the civilizations they harbored . In particular , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ determined the limits of older historiography should not be applied to such transnational phenomena as slavery , colonialism , missionary activity and economic expansion . Environmental history and the study of historical demography also play an important role , as many key questions in the field revolve around the ecological and epidemiological impact of the Columbian Exchange . Robert R. Palmer , an American historian of the French Revolution , pioneered the concept in the 1950s with a wide-ranging comparative history of how numerous nations experienced what he called the ' ' The Age of the Democratic Revolution : A Political History of Europe and America , 1760-1800 ' ' ( 1959 and 1964 ) . Since the 1980s Atlantic history has emerged as an increasingly popular alternative to the older discipline of imperial history , although it could be argued that the field is simply a refinement and reorientation of traditional historiography dealing with the interaction between early modern Europeans and native peoples in the Atlantic sphere . The organization of Atlantic History as a recognized area of historiography began in the 1980s under the impetus of American historians Bernard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hopkins University , among others . The post-World War II integration of the European Union and the continuing importance of NATO played an indirect role in stimulating interest throughout the 1990s. # Bailyn # Bailyn 's Seminar on the History of the Atlantic World promoted social and demographic studies , and especially regarding demographic flows of population into colonial America . As a leading advocate of the history of the Atlantic world , Bailyn has organized an annual international seminar at Harvard designed to promote scholarship in this field . Bailyn 's ' ' Atlantic History : Concepts and Contours ' ' ( 2005 ) explores the borders and contents of the emerging field , which emphasizes cosmopolitan and multicultural elements that have tended to be neglected or considered in isolation by traditional historiography dealing with the Americas . Bailyn 's reflections stem in part from his seminar at Harvard since the mid-1980s . Greene directed a program at Johns Hopkins in Atlantic History from 1972 to 1992 that has now expanded to global concerns . Other scholars in the field include John Coombs , Anthony Grafton , Felipe Armesto-Mestre Anthony @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ John Huxtable Elliott , Carla G. Pestana , Isaac Land , and Jorge Canizares-Esguerra. # Perspectives # Games ( 2006 ) explores the convergence of the multiple strands of scholarly interest that have generated the new field of Atlantic history , which takes as its geographic unit of analysis the Atlantic Ocean and the four continents that surround it . She argues Atlantic history is best approached as a slice of world history . The Atlantic , moreover , is a region that has logic as a unit of historical analysis only within a limited chronology . An Atlantic perspective can help historians understand changes within the region that a more limited geographic framework might obscure . Attempts to write a Braudelian Atlantic history , one that includes and connects the entire region , remain elusive , driven in part by methodological impediments , by the real disjunctions that characterized the Atlantic 's historical and geographic components , by the disciplinary divisions that discourage historians from speaking to and writing for each other , and by the challenge of finding a vantage point that is not rooted in any single place @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ began with the historians of slavery who started tracking the flows of slaves from Africa to the New World in the 1960s . A second source came from historians of colonial America . Many were trained in early modern European history and were familiar with the historiography regarding England and the British Empire. , which had been introduced a century before by George Louis Beer and Charles McLean Andrews . Colonialists have long been open to interdisciplinary perspectives , such as comparative approaches . In addition there was a frustration involved in writing about very few people in a small remote colony . Atlantic history opens the horizon to large forces at work over great distances . # Criticism # Some critics have complained that Atlantic history is little more than imperial history under another name . Others argue that it is simultaneously too expansive ( pretending to subsume both of the American continents , Africa and Europe , without seriously engaging with them ) and too small ( arbitrarily isolating the Atlantic from other bodies of water ) . Steele ( 2009 ) , a Canadian scholar , argues that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ myths , while offering historical support for such policies as the North American Free Trade Agreement ( NAFTA ) , the Organization of American States , NATO ( North Atlantic Treaty Organization ) , the New Europe , Christendom , and even the United Nations . He concludes , The early modern Atlantic can even be read as a natural antechamber for Americanled globalization of capitalism and serve as an historical challenge to the coalescing New Europe . No wonder that the academic reception of the new Atlantic history has been enthusiastic in the United States , and less so in Britain , France , Spain , and Portugal , where histories of national Atlantic empires continue to thrive . 