The Child Labour Programme of Action ( or CLPA ) is the national plan on elimination of child labour in South Africa . It was provisionally adopted by a large group of key stakeholders in September 2003 . These stakeholders include key government departments , including those responsible for labour , education , provincial and local government , water service , justice , policing , prosecution , social development , and education . The lead department is the Department of Labour . It was previously known as the Child Labour Action Programme , but was renamed in February 2006 because of the negative connotation attached to the abbreviation CLAP . The first phase was from 2004 to March 2008 and referred to as the CLPA-1 . Many departments and other stakeholders have been implementing aspects of the Child Labour Programme of Action since 2004 . However , the Minister of Labour plans to submit it for formal cabinet approval only once a costing study has been done . This study aims at calculating the additional cost to government of key elements of this programme . In September 2007 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of implementation , April 2008 to March 2013 . This is referred to as CLPA-2 . The programme ' ' Towards the Elimination of the worst forms of Child Labour ' ' ( TECL ) was , regarding its activities in South Africa during its first phase ( 20042008 ) , essentially an executing agency for key elements of the Child Labour Programme of Action . # Background # The South African Constitution provides that children under 18 have a right to be protected from work that is exploitative , hazardous , inappropriate for their age , detrimental to their schooling , or detrimental to their social , physical , mental , spiritual , or moral development . The term ' work ' is not limited to work in economic activities ( e.g. paid employment ) but includes chores or household activities in the child 's household ( such as collecting wood and fuel ) , where such work is exploitative , hazardous , inappropriate for their age , or detrimental to their development . The term ' child labour ' as used in the Child Labour Programme of Action covers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ estimates that there were about one million of South Africa 's children who are working as child labourers . South Africa has ratified the ILO Minimum Age Convention , 1973 ( C138 ) . This Convention requires ratifying states to pursue a national policy designed to ensure the effective abolition of child labour and to progressively raise the minimum age for admission to employment or work . South Africa also assisted in drafting the Worst Forms of Child Labour Convention , 1999 ( C182 ) , which it ratified in 2000 . In terms of this convention South Africa must take time-bound measures to eliminate the worst forms of child labour ( WFCL ) . These include forms of bonded labour , commercial sexual exploitation of children , trafficking of children , and the use of children by others in illegal activities , including drug trafficking . Since 1996 the Government of South Africa has been involved in a process towards the formulation of appropriate policies and a national action programme to combat child labour . The Department of Labour is the lead department in the process . The South African @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ directly and indirectly improving the situation of children . Many are aimed at addressing poverty , for example , the public works programmes , the provision of basic infrastructure , access to basic services and the roll out of social grants that benefit children . The programmes are funded for the most part from the government budget . The Child Labour Programme of Action is intended to complement and strengthen the existing programmes where they are not adequately preventing child labour . The first step in the development of the South African programme was the establishment of a reliable and credible database on child work in the country . In 1999 , Statistics South Africa conducted the first national household-based survey of child work in South Africa , the Survey of Activities of Young People ( SAYP ) . In addition to the SAYP , as part of the development of the Child Labour programme of Action , all known qualitative research conducted within South Africa on areas relevant to this policy was reviewed . This review was used , in particular , to inform those elements of the policy that @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ can not address and was published as ' ' Discussion document towards a National Child Labour Action Programme ' ' . The SAYP and review of qualitative research confirmed that South Africa does not seem to have as serious a problem in regard to child labour as some other countries . In particular , the extent of child labour in the formal sectors of the economy is limited . However , the SAYP also confirmed that there indeed are children in the country who are doing unacceptable amounts of work , or work of an unacceptable nature . South Africa clearly needs to address these if it is to fulfill its commitment in terms of the Constitution and international conventions . Addressing the problems sooner rather than later should also help to avoid their multiplying and becoming more serious and difficult to address in the future . # National consultations that led towards the Child Labour Programme of Action # Following the process of gathering information , the Government of South Africa began formulating appropriate policies and a national action programme to combat child labour . This was done through a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ engagement with key stakeholders . Stakeholders consulted included government departments , organised labour , organised business and relevant non-governmental organisations ( NGOs ) . The consultation process included focus groups with affected children , who were asked about their experiences and subsequently asked for their opinion on proposed policy measures aimed at addressing their specific circumstances . Exercises were also conducted with children in grade seven in schools throughout the country . The consultative process has culminated in the drafting of a national CLAP for South Africa . The process of developing the Child Labour Programme of Action was overseen and guided by an inter-sectoral National Steering Committee involving key departments , employers ' and workers organisations , NGOs and the community constituency of South Africa 's NEDLAC ( National Economic Development &amp; Labour Council ) . The National Steering Committee was coordinated and chaired by the Department of Labour . # Guiding principles # The following principles were applied in the drafting of the Child Labour Programme of Action : *Need for prioritisation : Because of limited resources the programme identified the forms of child work that should be prioritised @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ number of children involved and the degree of harm of particular forms of work . The country also needed to take action first , and urgently , on the worst forms of child labour identified in the Convention . *Learn from others where appropriate : South Africa has developed an indigenous programme that suits the local context , but has borrowed , where appropriate , best practices from other countries . It has also learnt from the mistakes of others . *The programme of action must be as realistic as possible , and take into account existing financial and human capacity and the extent to which capacity can be further developed within the time and resources available . *The programme must be sustainable . To achieve sustainability , it must be able to be funded from government funds after a possible initial injection of donor funds which the International Labour Organisation ( ILO ) has undertaken to help government access to assist with once-off expenditures that can kick-start ongoing , sustainable activities . *The programme must build on and fit in with existing programmes of government . The Child Labour Programme @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the mandates of a wide range of government departments and agencies . For each activity , the programme identifies the lead department as well as other departments and agencies , including non-governmental agencies , which would be involved . The views of the government agencies involved were canvassed during the formulation of the programme , and modifications introduced where necessary . Treasury 's budget officers were also consulted to ensure that the proposals would mesh with budgetary plans . The majority of the activities making up the Child Labour Programme of Action already forms part of government policy . In these cases the programme confirms that these activities contribute to addressing child labour . Where appropriate , it proposes that implementation be strengthened . In some cases , the programme suggests a variation of an existing programme or policy which will allow it to combat child labour more effectively . Neither of the above two types of proposals will involve significant expenditure or other resources from government . In a few cases , the Child Labour Programme of Action proposes new activities , some of which will necessitate new expenditures . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ each activity whether existing , a variation of existing , or new the programme identifies whether once-off and ongoing costs will be minimal , moderate or significant . The Department of Labour will undertake a costing exercise regarding at least those items identified as being moderately or significantly costly . # Key elements of the Child Labour Programme of Action # *Targeting the rollout of government and other stakeholders programmes and policies on poverty , employment , labour and social matters more effectively in areas where the work that children do has serious negative affects on them ; *Promoting new legislative measure against worst forms of child labour ; *Strengthening of national capacity to enforce legislative measures ; *Increasing public awareness and social mobilisation against the worst forms of child labour . Large-scale projects with significant financial demands and substantial human resource requirements have been avoided since they will not be realistic or sustainable . In a few cases , however , action steps have been included which may have significant cost implications . The most important of these is the proposed extension of the qualifying age for the by 2006 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the child turns 15 so as to avoid the current contradiction with the Basic Conditions of Employment Act prohibiting child work below that age , as well as the provisions on compulsory schooling . The programme also proposes a further roll out of the child support grant up to the age of 17 by 2008 . This will encourage children to remain in school and so help to avoid children 's engagement in hazardous works activities and other WFCL. 