Sugar Ray Leonard and Thomas Hearns are considered to be two of the best boxers of all-time . They fought twice , once in 1981 and once in 1989 . Both fights are considered to be classics . # Leonard-Hearns I The Showdown # Sugar Ray Leonard won the WBC welterweight title with a fifteenth-round knockout of Wilfred Bentez in 1979 . He lost it to Roberto Durn by a close decision in June 1980 and regained it five months later in the infamous No Ms Fight , in which Duran quit in the eighth round . In June 1981 , Leonard moved up to the light-middleweight division for one fight , knocking out Ayub Kalule in nine rounds to win the WBA light-middleweight title . Hearns won the WBA welterweight title in 1980 , scoring a second-round knockout of Jose ' Pipino ' Cuevas in Detroit , Michigan . He made three successful title defenses , stopping Luis Primera , Randy Shields , and Pablo Baez . Promoted as The Showdown , Leonard ( 30-1 with 21 KO ) fought Hearns ( 32-0 with 30 KO ) @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Nevada to unify the world welterweight championship in a scheduled fifteen-rounder . They fought before a live crowd of 23,618 and a worldwide TV audience of some 300 million . The fight began as expected , Leonard boxing from a distance and Hearns stalking . Leonard had difficulty with Hearns ' long reach and sharp jab . By the end of round five , Leonard had a growing swelling under his left eye , and Hearns had built a considerable lead on the scorecards . Leonard , becoming more aggressive , hurt Hearns in the sixth with a left hook to the chin . Leonard battered Hearns in rounds six and seven , but Hearns miraculously regrouped . Hearns started to stick and move , and he started to pile up points again . The roles reversed : Leonard became the stalker and Hearns became the boxer . Hearns won rounds nine through twelve on all three scorecards . Between rounds twelve and thirteen , Leonard 's trainer , the legendary Angelo Dundee , said the now legendary words You 're blowing it , son ! You 're blowing it @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ came out roaring for the thirteenth round . After hurting Hearns with a right , Leonard exploded with a combination of punches and sent Hearns through the ropes . Hearns managed to rise , but was dropped again near the end of the round . In round fourteen , after staggering Hearns with an overhand right , Leonard pinned Hearns against the ropes , where he unleashed another furious combination , prompting referee Davey Pearl to stop the contest and award Sugar Ray Leonard the unified world welterweight championship . Hearns was leading by scores of 124-122 , 125-122 , and 125-121 . After the fight , there was controversy due to the scoring of rounds six and seven . Even though Leonard dominated , hurting Hearns and battering him , all three judges gave both rounds to Leonard by a 10-9 margin . Many felt that the ten-point must scoring system was not properly used and those rounds should have been scored 10-8. s-aft after=KO3 Bruce Finch # Leonard-Hearns II The War # Following The Showdown , Leonard defended the undisputed world welterweight championship once , knocking out Bruce Finch @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ surgery to repair a detached retina in his left eye . Hearns moved up in weight and outpointed Wilfred Benitez to win the WBC light-middleweight title in 1982 . Two and a half years later , he challenged Marvin Hagler for the undisputed world middleweight championship , losing by a knockout in the third round of a very exciting fight . In early 1987 , he stopped Dennis Andries in ten rounds to win the WBC light-heavyweight title . Leonard made a one-fight comeback in 1984 and stopped Kevin Howard in nine rounds . However , Leonard suffered the first knockdown of his career and was so disappointed in his performance that he once again retired after the fight . In 1987 , Leonard came back again and fought Hagler for the middleweight championship . Leonard , a huge underdog , defeated Hagler by a twelve-round split decision . The following month , Leonard retired again . Hearns knocked out Juan Roldan in four rounds in late 1987 to win the vacant WBC middleweight title , becoming the first boxer to win world titles in four weight divisions . Hearns lost @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ knockout against Iran Barkley . Hearns returned to win the inaugural WBO super-middleweight title against James Kinchen by a majority decision on 4 November 1988 to become the first boxer to win world titles in five weight divisions . Three days later , Leonard knocked out Don Lalonde in nine rounds to win both Lalonde 's WBC light-heavyweight title and the vacant WBC super-middleweight title . After almost eight years , the Leonard-Hearns rematch finally happened . It was promoted as The War . Leonard ( 35-1 with 25 KOs ) and Hearns ( 46-3 with 38 KOs ) met on June 12 , 1989 at Caesar 's Palace in a scheduled twelve-rounder for the WBC &amp; WBO super-middleweight titles . Hearns dropped Leonard with a right cross in the third round , but Leonard came back and battered Hearns around the ring in the fifth round . Early in the seventh round , Hearns hurt Leonard but punched himself out going for the knockout . With Hearns fatigued , Leonard came back and had a strong finish to the round . Rounds nine and ten were good rounds for Leonard @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Three booming rights from Hearns sent Leonard down for the second time in the fight . Knowing he needed a big finish , Leonard fought furiously and had a big final round . The judges scored the fight a draw , with both boxers retaining their respective titles . Judge Jerry Roth scored the fight 113-112 for Hearns , Judge Tom Kazmarek scored it 113-112 for Leonard , and Judge Dalby Shirley scored it 112-112 . Shirley was the only judge to give Leonard a 10-8 margin in the twelfth . If he had scored it 10-9 , as his two colleagues did , Hearns would have won by a split decision . The decision was soundly booed , as most felt that Hearns had won . Eventually , Leonard admitted that Hearns deserved the decision .   There was talk of a third fight , but it never happened . Leonard had his attorney , Mike Trainer , pursue a third fight , but Hearns said that he could no longer make the weight and was returning to light-heavyweight. s-aft after=W12 Roberto Durn # Notes # 