A National Monument in the United States is a protected area that is similar to a National Park except that the President of the United States can declare an area of the United States to be a National Monument without the approval of Congress . However , areas within and extending beyond national parks , monuments , and national forests can be part of wilderness areas , which have an even greater degree of protection than a national park would alone , although wilderness areas managed by the United States Forest Service and Bureau of Land Management often allow hunting and grazing . National monuments can be managed by one of several federal agencies : the National Park Service , United States Forest Service , United States Fish and Wildlife Service , or Bureau of Land Management . Historically , some national monuments were managed by the U.S. War Department National monuments can be so designated through the power of the Antiquities Act of 1906 . President Theodore Roosevelt used the act to declare Devils Tower National Monument # History # The Antiquities Act of 1906 resulted from @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ States The reference in the act to objects of ... scientific interest enabled President Theodore Roosevelt to make a natural Geology In 1908 , Roosevelt used the act to proclaim more than of the Grand Canyon as a national monument . In 1918 , President Woodrow Wilson proclaimed Katmai National Monument in Alaska , comprising more than 1000000acrekm2 lk=in . Katmai was later enlarged to nearly 2800000acrekm2 lk=in by subsequent Antiquities Act proclamations and for many years was the largest national park system unit . Petrified Forest , Grand Canyon , and Katmai were among the many national monuments later converted to national parks by Congress . In response to Roosevelt 's declaration of the Grand Canyon monument , a putative mining claimant sued in federal court , claiming that Roosevelt had overstepped the Antiquities Act authority by protecting an entire canyon . In 1920 , the United States Supreme Court ruled unanimously that the Grand Canyon was indeed an object of historic or scientific interest and could be protected by proclamation , setting a precedent for the use of the Antiquities Act to preserve large areas . Federal courts have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Antiquities Act preservation authority . Substantial opposition did not materialize until 1943 , when President Franklin Delano Roosevelt In 1949 , for example , President Harry S. Truman proclaimed Effigy Mounds National Monument to accept a donation of the land from the state of Iowa , at the request of Iowa 's delegation . The most substantial use of the proclamation authority came in 1978 , when President Jimmy Carter proclaimed 15 new national monuments in Alaska after Congress had adjourned without passing a major Alaska lands bill strongly opposed in that state . Congress passed a revised version of the bill in 1980 incorporating most of these national monuments into national parks and preserves , but the act also curtailed further use of the proclamation authority in Alaska . The proclamation authority was not used again anywhere until 1996 , when President Bill Clinton proclaimed the Grand Staircase-Escalante National Monument in Utah . This action was widely unpopular in Utah , and bills were introduced to further restrict the president 's authority . To date , none of them have been enacted . Most of the 16 national monuments created @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Service , but by the Bureau of Land Management as part of the National Landscape Conservation System . New Monuments managed by the Park Service are Governors Island National Monument , Virgin Islands Coral Reef National Monument , and , formerly , ' ' Minidoka Internment National Monument ' ' ( since 2008 : Minidoka National Historic Site ) . George W. Bush proclaimed two very different monuments in 2006 , the hundredth anniversary of the Antiquities Act . African Burial Ground National Monument is a tiny archeological site in New York City . Northwestern Hawaiian Islands National Monument protects roughly 140000sqmikm2 lk=in of the Pacific Ocean , larger than all of America 's national parks combined . ( It was renamed Papahnaumokukea Marine National Monument in 2007 ) . Presidents have used the Antiquities Act 's proclamation authority not only to create new national monuments but to enlarge existing ones . For example , Franklin D. Roosevelt significantly enlarged Dinosaur National Monument in 1938 . Lyndon B. Johnson added Ellis Island to Statue of Liberty National Monument in 1965 , and Jimmy Carter made major additions to Glacier Bay National @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bush used the Antiquities Act to create the Mariana Trench Marine National Monument , the Pacific Remote Islands Marine National Monument , and the Rose Atoll Marine National Monument . In April 2012 President Barack Obama established the Fort Ord National Monument in California 's Central Coast region . In September 2012 , Obama established the Chimney Rock National Monument in Colorado . and in October 2012 established the Cesar E. Chavez National Monument . In March 2013 President Barack Obama designated five new National Monuments : the Charles Young Buffalo Soldiers National Monument in Ohio , the First State National Monument in Delaware , the Harriet Tubman Underground Railroad National Monument in Maryland , the Ro Grande del Norte National Monument in New Mexico , and the San Juan Islands National Monument in Washington . In May 2014 , President Barack Obama designated an additional National Monument , the Organ Mountains-Desert Peaks National Monument in New Mexico # List of National Monuments # 