Carolinas College of Health Sciences ( CCHS ) is a public 2-year college located in Charlotte , North Carolina . Established in 1990 , the college is a subsidiary of the Carolinas Medical Center ( CMC ) and owned by Carolinas HealthCare System . In 2010 , ' ' Washington Monthly ' ' had ranked CCHS the number three 2-year college in the country . Washington Monthly relies heavily on federally collected , standardized data such as graduation rate , student-to-faculty ratios , and student and faculty engagement . The school offers programs in nursing , radiologic technology , radiation therapy , surgical technology , anesthesiology technician , medical laboratory science , and various continuing education programs and workshops . In addition to its traditional educational programs , the college is home to the region 's only dual-accredited simulation center . The Center features a patient simulation suite as well as a procedural suite . # History # In the late 1980s , Carolinas HealthCare System administration established the CMHA School of Nursing after a feasibility study showed the need for nurses at the local and statewide level @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Act NC General Stat 113E-23 ( a ) ( 31 ) , and was delegated to the school by the Board of Commissioners . The North Carolina Board of Nursing gave initial approval to the school in May 1990 , with the first students admitted in the fall of that year . Full approval status was granted by the North Carolina Board of Nursing , and the first class graduated in 1992 . In December 1993 , CMHA 's Board of Commissioners passed a resolution to incorporate the CMHA School of Nursing and to appoint a board of directors for the school . Degree granting authority was delegated to the board of directors . In July 1996 , the board of directors approved the school to do business as Carolinas College of Health Sciences . The existing Schools of Radiologic Technology and Surgical Technology joined CCHS in August 1996 , and the School of Clinical Lab Sciences ( Medical Lab Science ) joined in January 1997 . A school of Emergency Medical Sciences operated 2003 - 2008 . The first Radiation Therapy class was admitted in 2009 . The College 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and under it are offered Nurse Aide I and Phlebotomy ( both begun in 1996 ) , Nurse Aide II ( 2006 ) and Anesthesia Technology ( 2011 ) . # Academics # CCHS offers educational programs leading to entry-level employment in health care . These include nursing , radiologic technology , radiation therapy , surgical technology , and medical laboratory sciences . The continuing education department offers non-credit education in nurse aide , healing touch , phlebotomy , CPR of various levels , cancer massage , IV therapy , and other focused areas of health care . CCHS was ranked the number three 2-year college in the country by ' ' Washington Monthly ' ' in 2010 , based on the college 's high graduation rate and responses on a national , standardized survey of student engagement . CCHS is accredited by the Commission on Colleges of the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools ( SACS ) to award the Associate of Applied Science degree . # Carolinas Simulation Center # , located in Charlotte , N.C. , is the region 's only facility to Achieve Dual Accreditation . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ facility in the region to be both an accredited Level I Education Institute and a accredited simulation center ( Assessment , Research , and Teaching/Education ) . These prestigious accreditations designate Carolinas Simulation Center as a provider of quality education and a partner in advancing patient safety through educational endeavors . The Center was established as a multidisciplinary simulation center to meet the training needs of Carolinas Medical Center and its related entities as well as healthcare providers and community groups from across the surrounding region . Being a contributing member of the National League of Nursing ( NLN ) , , and a local consortium of simulation usersCarolinas Healthcare Simulation Alliance-Piedmont ( CHSA-P ) uniquely positions Carolinas Simulation Center to meet the needs of a wide range of user groups . The Simulation Center allows healthcare professionals at all levels the opportunity to use interactive , lifelike manikins and other equipment to simulate procedures and situations in a safe-learning environment . One of the center 's priorities is educational research for continuous improvement of educational methods . Faculty can provide structured , risk-free , hands-on educational experiences for medical and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and other allied health personnel . Emphasis is given to curriculum development and implementation on a variety of simulators. , healthcare professionals are able to learn proper techniques and improve their decision-making skills through an interactive environment . Through repetitive practice on lifelike manikins , learners are better prepared to safely work with patients . 