' ' Goddess of the Market ' ' is a biography of Ayn Rand by historian Jennifer Burns . Subtitled Ayn Rand and the American Right , it explores Rand 's intellectual development and her relationship to the conservative and libertarian movements . The writing of her books and the development of her philosophy of Objectivism are also covered . # Background and publication history # Burns spent eight years working on the book , which began as a dissertation for her doctoral degree from the University of California at Berkeley . In the process of writing the book , Burns became the first independent historian given access to the Ayn Rand Archives , a collection of Rand 's personal papers hosted by the Ayn Rand Institute . When the book was published by Oxford University Press in September 2009 , Burns was an assistant professor of history at the University of Virginia . A paperback edition of the book was released in August 2011. # Contents # The book is divided into four main sections . The first , titled The Education of Ayn Rand , 19051943 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ until the publication of her novel ' ' The Fountainhead ' ' . The second , From Novelist to Philosopher , 19441957 covers the period in which she wrote her last novel , ' ' Atlas Shrugged ' ' . The third section , Who Is John Galt ? 19571968 , discusses the growth of the Objectivist movement based on Rand 's philosophy , and her relationship and eventual break with her protg Nathaniel Branden . The final section , Legacies , covers the final years of Rand 's life and the continuing reaction to her after her death . Burns also includes an Essay on Sources describing the scholarship about Rand and her own use of the Ayn Rand Archives . # Reception # The book has received generally positive reviews . ' ' Booklist ' ' described it as a thoroughly engaging biography and eminently readable . In a review for ' ' The Washington Times ' ' , libertarian journalist Brian Doherty said that the book provides a proper sense of where Rand really stands in American ideological history . However , he says Burns is less convincing @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ wing as indicated in the book 's subtitle . A review by Nick Gillespie in ' ' The Wilson Quarterly ' ' said , Burns is particularly sharp at analyzing how Cold War conservatives such as Buckley rejected Rands rationalism but eventually benefited from her popularity with college students during the 1960s . The American Thinker , a conservative website , described Burns as honest about contradictions that plagued Rand and said the book shows the power of Rand 's ideas and the hold she maintained over her followers . A brief review from ' ' Publishers Weekly ' ' was mixed , calling the book exasperatingly detailed and slow-going at times , but complimenting Burns for her ability to explicate the evolution of Rand 's individualist worldview . Several of the reviews compared the book with another biography of Rand , ' ' Ayn Rand and the World She Made ' ' by Anne Heller , which focuses on the details of Rand 's life , in contrast to the intellectual history focused on by Burns . In a review for ' ' The New York Times ' ' , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ same points and touch on many of the same biographical details , although Maslin prefers Heller 's book for its greater detail . The two books were also reviewed jointly in ' ' The New Republic ' ' and ' ' Time ' ' . On October 15 , 2009 , Burns was interviewed about the book on ' ' The Daily Show ' ' . Host Jon Stewart said it was incredible timing for the book to be released at a time when Rand was experiencing a resurgence .. in the culture , a reference to the popularity of Rand 's writing among contemporary conservatives , including the Tea Party movement . 