Da Boom is the third episode of the second season of the animated comedy series ' ' Family Guy ' ' and the tenth episode of the series . It originally aired on Fox in the United States on December 26 , 1999 . The episode features the Griffin family after a nuclear holocaust occurs , due to Y2K on New Year 's Eve . The family then travels in search of food , and eventually decide to establish a town around a Twinkie factory . Peter then takes over the town , establishing himself as mayor , but eventually becomes power hungry , and is overthrown . The episode was written by Neil Goldman and Garrett Donovan and directed by Bob Jaques . It received praise from Ahsan Haque for its storyline and use of cultural references . The episode featured guest performances by Patrick Duffy , Victoria Principal , Jack Perkins , Will Sasso , and Joey Slotnick along with several recurring voice actors for the series . This is the first episode that aired to feature Mila Kunis as the voice of Meg Griffin . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ prepares for New Year 's Day ( which is the last New Year 's Day of the millennium ) , and the family has been invited Joe 's Millennium party . At a store , a man in a chicken suit asks Peter if he wants a coupon , but Peter refuses , recalling his own time that he got a bad coupon from Ernie the Giant Chicken and started a fistfight that caused casualties in many places of Quahog . After Peter refuses for a coupon , the man warns Peter that the world will end because of Y2K ( Peter does n't listen until the third time he said it ) . Peter locks his family up in their basement , despite his family 's protests to attend a local New Years party . While the Griffin family spends the next few minutes inside their basement wearing hazmat suits , but at first nothing happens , and Brian says that he could be in Boston by this point pretending to give a crap about Vivaldi . But then , a nuclear holocaust occurs just after midnight because of Y2K @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , or killing many of the surviving citizens of Quahog , however , the Griffins remain free from mutations . As the family look for survivors , they soon discover that Joe has been melted into his driveway , his son Kevin has been vaporized , while Quagmire and Cleveland have fused together and are now called Clevemire ; with the former wishing to be called Quagland , and Tom Tucker and Diane Simmons have eaten Tricia Takanawa . Starving for food , Peter immediately eats all the dehydrated meals , without adding water . Becoming hungry , Peter recalls that the snackfood Twinkies are the only food that can survive a nuclear holocaust . Desperate , the family travels to Natick , Massachusetts , in hopes that the Twinkie factory has survived . On the way , Stewie is exposed to nuclear waste and soon mutates into an octopus-like creature . Upon their arrival at Natick , they discover the factory is still standing , and in perfect condition . Expecting to be able to live off of the snackfood , they decide to establish a town , dubbed New @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ proclaims himself mayor , because it was his idea to seek out the factory . Accepting his argument , Joe and Clevemire join him to form a ruling council . One year later , New Quahog has become a fresh new community , complete with houses and wells . The survivors have joined the building of New Quahog , and through teamwork , everyone is getting along fine . Peter has successfully reigned as mayor , despite many mistakes , such as giving people jobs picked out of a hat rather than based on the person 's skills . However , when Brian points out how New Quahog is a peaceful place with no violence , Peter realises that they are completely defenseless and uses the pipes from the city 's water irrigation system to make guns and other weapons , outraging the citizens . Meanwhile , Stewie , who has gained girth according to himself , as he continues to transform into an octopus , suddenly lays hundreds of eggs in the basement of their house . Despite Peter 's insistence that he is fit to continue to be the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ out of New Quahog , and his family follows him . The citizens proceed to burn the guns Peter had made with the pipes in the middle of the town square . As they throw the last gun onto the pile , hundreds of newly spawned Octopus-Stewies hatch , and begin to destroy the city , with the townspeople unable to protect themselves from the mutants , due to burning all the guns . As the family walks away , oblivious to the town 's destruction , they decide to continue to a Carvel factory in Framingham , Massachusetts . The episode then ends in a live-action parody of ' ' Dallas ' ' , in which Pamela Barnes Ewing ( Victoria Principal ) wakes to find her husband , Bobby ( Patrick Duffy ) , in the shower . Surprised to see her in the bathroom , Pamela begins telling him about a dream she had of a strange episode of ' ' Family Guy . ' ' Bobby comforts her , but then asks What 's ' ' Family Guy ' ' ? , after which they both turn @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ # Da Boom was the third episode of the second season of ' ' Family Guy ' ' , and the first for director Bob Jaques . The episode was written by writing team Neil Goldman and Garrett Donovan , who had written episodes for the show in the first season including Mind Over Murder . This was the first episode to have Mila Kunis providing the voice of Meg . Lacey Chabert , the original voice of Meg , left the series due to time constraints with her acting role in ' ' Party of Five ' ' , as well as schoolwork . Kunis won the role after auditions and a slight rewrite of the character , in part due to her performance on ' ' That ' 70s Show ' ' . Seth MacFarlane , the show 's creator , called Kunis back after her first audition , instructing her to speak slower , and then told her to come back another time and enunciate more . Once she claimed that she had it under control , MacFarlane hired her . Ernie the Giant Chicken was introduced in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a rival to Peter . He has a long , unexpected fight with Peter , which interrupts the main storyline . This has become a running gag , having reappeared in episodes such as Blind Ambition Internal Affairs , No Chris Left Behind and in Meet the Quagmires . He is voiced by regular show writer Danny Smith . In addition to the regular cast , actress Victoria Principal , comedian and actor Will Sasso , reporter , commentator , war correspondent , anchorman Jack Perkins , voice actor Joey Slotnick , and character actor Patrick Duffy guest starred in the episode . Recurring guest voice actress Lori Alan , writer Danny Smith , and actor Patrick Warburton also made minor appearances . It first aired on December 12 , 1999. # Cultural references # The live-action sequence in the episode is a reference to the episode of the CBS soap opera ' ' Dallas ' ' that erased the death of Bobby Ewing ( Patrick Duffy ) , which turns out to be a dream of Pamela Ewing ( Victoria Principal ) . Randy Newman appears singing everything he @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from the Rabbit , which is a reference to commercials for Trix cereal . Chris tells E.T . to run when he thinks Peter is the government coming for him . When travelling to find food they are stopped and there 's a reference to ' ' Family Feud ' ' . Stewie 's line , Game over man ! Game over ! is a nod to the science fiction film ' ' Aliens ' ' . Arriving at the Twinkie factory , Peter uses the same words to describe what he sees that Dr. Elle Arroway used in ' ' Contact ' ' when witnessing a celestial event in a foreign galaxy . # Reception # Ahsan Haque of IGN rated the episode a 10/10 , saying Overall , this episode easily ranks as one of the best in the series . Almost every joke succeeds , and the far-fetched alternate reality storyline thoroughly entertains . Despite the fact that all of the events in the episode are revealed to be a dream , it does n't take away from the high degree of amusement provided . 