Villa Carlota is the name under which two German farming settlements , in the villages of Santa Elena and Pustunich in Yucatn , were founded during the Second Mexican Empire ( 18641867 ) . This colonization program is not to be confused with the Carlota Colony , an American settlement in Veracruz . For strategically and political reasons , Emperor Maximilian I of Mexico 's immigration policy included the goal to colonize the Yucatn peninsula with approximately 600 European families of farmers and artisans per year . The leader of this colonization program was the Imperial Commissioner to Yucatn , Jos Salazar Ilarregui . At an operation level , the director was the German engineer and cartographer Moritz von Hippel . Being a pilot program , Villa Carlota attracted 443 German-speaking immigrants , most of them simple farmers and artisans . The majority came as families . The first group , formed by 224 settlers , arrived to the port of Sisal , Yucatn , on October 25 , 1865 . These families settled in Santa Elena , a village with mostly Maya people , around 100 kilometers @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 219 colonizers arrived to that same port on July 15 , 1866 ; most of them were send to the tiny village of Pustunich , some to Santa Elena and a few others stayed in Mrida or went to work to other Yucatecan locations , such as Holbox , Laguna de Trminos or Baca. 72% of the colonists came from Prussia and many of them were Protestants . Although in general these immigrants were well received by the hosting society , and the Imperial government apparently honored to the extent of its capabilities the contract it offered to these farmers , the colonies collapsed in 1867 . Passive and perhaps active- opposition from the Yucatecan elite to the project , the inappropriateness of the cultivation tracts for the purpose assigned to the settlement , organizational problems amongst the colonists themselves and the fall of the Second Empire were some of the most important factors leading to the collapse of the program . Relatively soon after having settled in Santa Elena , the settler 's families started to create relationships with the locals . Marriages between Germans and people of Santa Elena @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were originally Protestants converted into Catholicism ; many of the ' ' padrinos ' ' were Yucatecans . This explains partly why until our days the oral tradition around this historical event is still so rich . After the disintegration of Villa Carlota as such , some families migrated to other parts of the peninsula , into the United States and back to Germany . Many stayed , however , in Yucatn , where we can find descendents of these pioneers with last names such as Worbis , Dietrich and Sols , among others . The following characteristics are special about Villa Carlota : ( 1 ) It was probably the first case of subsidized migration into Mxico. ( 2 ) Being a working migration , and not an elite one , the Villacarlotans constitute an exceptional case among the Germans who migrated into Mexico . ( 3 ) Contrary to the settlement patterns found in other Latin-American countries , the Villa Carlotans settled within existing Maya communities : this provided many opportunities for intercultural contact , miscegenation and acculturation. ( 4 ) The results brought about by the analysis of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the migration politics of the Second Empire , as well as the idea that only elite German migration was received by Mexico . In 2008 the Archivo Histrico de Mrida Yucatn hosted a large exhibit about this subject , entitled Villa Carlota : Una reconstruccin documental de la historia de las colonias alemanas en Yucatn . Family histories by descendants Some descendants of these pioneers have already started to research on their own and to publish accounts of their family 's histories . # References # 