Clinical ecology was the name given by proponents in the 1960s to a claim that exposure to low levels of certain chemical agents harm susceptible people , causing multiple chemical sensitivity and other disorders . Clinical ecologists are people that support and promote this offshoot of conventional medicine . They may have a background in the field of allergy , and the theoretical approach is derived in part from classic concepts of allergic responses , first articulated by Theron Randolph , leading them to find cause-and-effect relationships or low-dose effects that are not generally accepted by toxicologists . Components of the mainstream medical community have rejected these claims . # Training and qualifications # Clinical Ecologist is not claimed to be anything more than an orientation in the practice of holistic medicine . Current practitioners with this orientation do not use the term Clinical Ecologist , although those opposed to this complementary medicine approach to illness often still do . Unlike terms such as ' ' physician ' ' or ' ' nurse ' ' , the term ' ' clinical ecologist ' ' is not legally regulated @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ legally claim to be a clinical ecologist . If wanted , they may obtain an extralegal certification or membership from the unregulated private organization American Academy of Environmental Medicine upon payment of a fee . Many clinical ecologists are licensed healthcare professionals . # History # Randolph published a number of books to promote clinical ecology and environmental medicine , including : * * * In 1965 , Randolph founded the Society for Clinical Ecology as an organization to promote his ideas about symptoms reported by his patients . During the 1980s the movement was rejected by some medical organizations and judges , and health insurance companies often refused to pay their bills . The society 's name was changed from the Society for Clinical Ecology , according to its opponents , in order to flee from its bad reputation . # Criticism # Randolph 's theories about chemical effects have been criticized as nonsensical by toxicologists , and his rejection of the signal importance of IgE antibodies in true allergy conflicts with modern allergists . Of course , Randolph did not claim that environmental sensitivities were true allergies mediated by @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ from non-allergic sensitivities . The turf war waged by allergists and defense expert witnesses has long since been understood as irrelevant to the true , recognized category of illnesses observed and accepted by two workshops of the National Academy of Sciences . Clinical ecology is not a recognized medical specialty . Practitioners have been criticized for tricking mentally ill and suggestible women into thinking that they were chemically sensitive . Critics of clinical ecology charge that multiple chemical sensitivity has never been clearly defined , no scientifically plausible mechanism has been proposed for it , no diagnostic tests have been substantiated , and not a single case has been scientifically proven . Well-conducted studies establishing the theories and practices of clinical ecology were not found in reviews of evidence supporting its practices by the American Medical Association in 1992 , the American College of Physicians in 1989 , the Canadian Psychiatric Association , the International Society of Regulatory Toxicology and Pharmacology in 1993 , the American Academy of Allergy , Asthma and Immunology , and more recently by the American College of Occupational and Environmental Medicine in 1999. 