The Cork Free Press ( 11 June 1910 9 December 1916 ) was a nationalist newspaper in Ireland , which circulated primarily in the Munster region surrounding its base in Cork , and was the newspaper of the dissident All-for-Ireland League party ( 19091918 ) . Published daily from June 1910 until 1915 , and weekly in 191516 , it was the third of three newspapers founded and published within a decade by William O'Brien MP . It developed a unique approach to the national question and to the social issues of the day , with a pronounced conciliatory view to achieving Home Rule for the whole of Ireland . It displayed a favourable attitude towards the Sinn Fin movement . Its main rival newspapers were the Cork Examiner and the Freeman 's Journal . # The Irish People # ' ' The Irish People ' ' ( 16 September 1899 7 November 1903 ) , was the first of three newspapers published by William O'Brien . Its object to support his new agrarian reform organisation , the United Irish League . It was a Dublin based politically @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ previous editor of the ' ' Freeman 's Journal ' ' . The paper was financed principally by William O'Brien 's wife Sophie , sister of poet and socialite Marc Andr Sebastian Raffalovich and daughter of the Russian Jewish banker , Hermann Raffalowich , domiciled in Paris . ' ' The Irish People ' ' ceased publication abruptly with O'Brien 's resignation from public life on 4 November 1903 , after he had been alienated from the Irish Parliamentary Party . He had successfully negotiated and won the ' ' Wyndham Land ( Purchase ) Act , 1903 ' ' which settled the age old Irish Land Question , but denounced in an Irish party attack launched by John Dillon MP rejecting his policy of conciliation with landlords . The paper 's editor Tim McCarthy only learnt of his demise a day later . As a future editor of the Belfast ' ' Irish News ' ' he later became one of O'Brien 's bitterest critics . The machinery of the ' ' Irish People ' ' was bought by John O'Donnell MP and moved to Galway , where he set @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ) . ' ' The Irish People ' ' ( 30 September 1905 27 March 1909 ) was re-published in Cork after O'Brien 's return to public life in 1904 , its editor John Herlihy . The paper aimed at furthering O'Brien 's concept of national conciliation and promoting full scale implementation of the Land Act , by encouraging tenant land purchase and extolling its benefits . This through an alliance with the ' ' Land and Labour Association ' ' which had become the Munster base for O'Brien 's renewed political activities . ' ' The Irish People ' ' , O'Brien 's prime political media , propagated from 1906 the cottage building programmes won under the ' ' 1906 Labourer ( Ireland ) Act ' ' . Its editorials , usually penned by D. D. Sheehan MP , condemned in regular rhetorical exchanges with the Irish party 's ' ' Freeman 's Journal ' ' , the party 's relentless campaign against land purchase . ' ' The Irish People ' ' ceased publication finally in March 1909 when O'Brien travelled abroad to recover from the December 1908 Baton @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ before it praised Sinn Fin as honest youngsters , who could yet be won over by a great new national movement . # The Cork Accent # ' ' The Cork Accent ' ' ( 1 January 1910 10 June 1910 ) appeared on O'Brien 's return at the end of the year . The short lived ' ' Cork Accent ' ' carried the following explanation of the title in every issue : In its first editorial it condemned the ' ' Cork Examiner ' ' as representing a Delvinite form of Catholic Orangism . Further issues covered the resounding success of the eight O'Brienite Independent Nationalists returned in the January 1910 general election , ( soon to become O'Brien 's new national movement , the All-for-Ireland League ) , as well as the political stalemate in the House of Commons . In February a fund was launched at the Cork City Hall for the publication of a new full-scale daily paper , the ' ' Cork Free Press ' ' . # Cork Free Press # The ' ' Cork Free Press ' ' made its appearance on 11 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ three editors . The opening issue carried a splendid leading article by the founder member and staunch supporter of the All-forIreland League , Canon Sheehan of Donerail . The League held its public inaugural meeting in March , and from July all issues had one central theme , to promote the conciliatory principles of the League in achieving Home Rule , with extensive coverage of election meetings in preparation for the December elections . It regularly attacked the Irish Party for allying with ' socialists , secularists and land nationalisers ' . The Redmondite controlled ' ' Freeman 's Journal ' ' countered by rebuking the O'Brienite Independents as dissident factionists . The ' ' Cork Free Press ' ' continually accused the Redmonite ' ' Cork Examiner ' ' of supporting the disreputable Ancient Order of Hibernians . Soon after the appearance of the ' ' Cork Free Press ' ' , however , Herlihy fell out with O'Brien . He had decided to replace the linotype printing machines with newly developed monotype technology , certainly more suitable for book publishing , but not for high-volume newspaper publishing . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ misprints , and Herlihy was fired . He unsuccessfully sued for unfair dismissal , was then active as a journalist in London and in the mid-1930s , one year editor of the ' ' Irish Press ' ' . Herlihys successor was Hugh Art OGrady , eldest son of Standish James O'Grady , a young Trinity graduate who was sincerely in accord with All-for-Ireland aspirations . The December 1910 general election saw the League victorious in Cork , returning eight MPs , but elsewhere succumbed to clerical opposition . With Home Rule in the offing , the paper reflected the outrage of O'Brien and his party colleagues when Redmond gave way to partition under pressure from Sir Edward Carson , after specific concessions were published in the January 1914 edition of the paper which O'Brien claimed were acceptable to Ulster , to enable it to come in on an All-Ireland Home Rule agreement . The Redmondites saw themselves as achieving Home Rule , the All-for-Ireland League saw them as having achieved partition . When World War I broke in August 1914 , Home Rule was set aside . The ' ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ giving support to Irish participation in the war , by telling readers that the war had welded the Irish together and to secure All-Ireland Home Rule it was necessary to join Britain and the Allies in their hour of need . This was so very much in accord with O'Grady 's own martial enthusiasm that he eventually decided to resign his post in 1915 and enlist in the war . The London correspondent of the ' ' Cork Free Press ' ' at the time was Frank Gallagher , a Cork native and from 1915 its third editor , who though himself a separatist , personally admired O'Brien . He had attempted to dissuade O'Brien from his decision to support the war , as he was rightly worried about the negative effects it would have on circulation and on the League , particularly since rising losses and paper shortages forced the paper to become a weekly in mid-1915. # Lean to Sinn Fin # After the Rising in 1916 , Gallagher contacted O'Brien in London to discuss the attitude of the ' ' Cork Free Press ' ' to it . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ said the staff would walk out unless the paper took a more favourable attitude . O'Brien capitulated and soon developed admiration for the insurgents ' idealism and their desperation at possible consequences . O'Brien 's ' ' Cork Free Press ' ' soon began to present an altogether favourable attitude towards Sinn Fin , practically becoming a Sinn Fin organ . Though the paper continued to point out the lesson that physical force had been proved useless and that what was needed was a united constitutionalism . The editorials took on a distinctly heroic view of the rebels and damned Redmond and the Irish MPs for their anti- Sinn Fin utterances . The editorial in the issue of 30 September 1916 betrayed all the hesitance about embracing Sinn Fin that had distinguished O'Brien 's attitude over the years : ' ' It is to the Sinn Fin party that Ireland must now look to mould the future of her people ' ' . This mirrored Gallaghers separatist aspirations and that of most of the papers staff . The quasi-separatist attitude of the ' ' Cork Free Press ' ' increased sales @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ financial position hopeless . # Suppressed # The paper suffered closure because soon after the appointment of Lord Decies as Chief Press Censor for Ireland . Decies warned the press to be careful about what they published . Such warnings had little effect when dealing with such papers as the ' ' Cork Free Press ' ' . It was suppressed after Gallagher accused the British authorities of lying about the conditions and situation of republican prisoners in the Frongoch internment camp . Finally , when in December 1916 , OBrien ceased publication of the ' ' Cork Free Press ' ' , he lost the last effective link with his constituents . To keep the paper alive since 1910 had cost 30,000 of his wifes savings . In the 1918 general elections , the All-for-Ireland League MPs stood down in favour of Sinn Fin . Frank Gallagher was subsequently founding editor of the ' ' Irish Press ' ' and director of publicity for amon de Valera ( 193135 ) . # Notes 