Stefan Meyer ( 27 April 1872 29 December 1949 ) was an Austrian physicist involved in research on radioactivity . He became director of the Institute for Radium Research in Vienna and received the Lieben Prize in 1913 for his research on radium . He was the brother of Hans Leopold Meyer who was also awarded the Lieben Prize . # Life and work # Stefan was the second son of Jewish parents : a lawyer and notary Gotthelf Karl Meyer and his wife Clara ( ne Goldschmidt , sister of Victor Goldschmidt ) . He went to school in Vienna and later graduated from gymnasium in Horn in 1892 . He studied physics at the University of Vienna and attended the University of Leipzig for one year . He obtained his PhD in 1896 for work with Franz Serafin Exner and completed his habilitation in 1900 . In 1897 , Meyer became assistant of Ludwig Boltzmann at the Institute for Theoretical Physics , University of Vienna . His research was dedicated to magnetic permeability of liquids . After a talk of Friedrich Oskar Giesel a pioneer in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of radium from Giesel to determine magnetic properties of the new element . Meyer and his colleague Egon von Schweidler were able to show that the Becquerel rays ( beta rays ) could be deflected by magnetic fields ; this effect was discovered simultaneously by several scientists , but Meyer ' ' et al . ' ' also showed that the radiation from polonium ( alpha rays ) behaved differently in the magnetic field . Meyer was able to organize the production of 4 grams of radium , as recommended in 1901 by the Austrian Academy of Sciences . The chemical plant of Auer von Welsbach , which was used to produce rare earth elements , provided the necessary technical equipment and knowledge for separation of small quantities of material from ore . Meyer became interim head of the institute for one year after the suicide of Boltzmann . During that time , Meyer had also contacted Lise Meitner before she left for Berlin in 1907 . Meyer became assistant of Exner in 1908 and professor in 1909 . The ample supply of radium which he shared with the Curies in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him a key figure in the research on radium . The only larger source for radium-containing pitchblende was the Sankt Joachimsthal mines , which were located in Austria-Hungary . To improve the industrial use and mining of radium , Austrian industrialist Karl Kupelwieser donated 500,000 Austrian kronen to found an institute for research on radium in 1908 . In 1910 , the Institute for Radium Research in Vienna was opened . Meyer became its first acting director , and Exner was the director of the institute . The institute in Vienna opened two years before the Institute du Radium in Paris . During the time when Meyer was acting director , a number of prominent scientists worked at the institute , including George de Hevesy , Victor Francis Hess and Friedrich Paneth . With the Anschluss sterreichs in 1938 , the annexation of Austria by Nazi Germany , Meyer as a Jew had to leave office . He requested retirement before he was forced out of the institute . He stayed in his house in the countryside of Austria and , because of the intervention of several people , was left @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ brother Hans Leopold Meyer , a professor of chemistry , was less protected and was killed in the Theresienstadt concentration camp in 1942 . After the war , Meyer was rehabilitated and allowed to return to his Institute as director . Meyer died in 1949. # Publications # Stefan Meyer published several articles on radioactivity together with Schweidler . He compiled most of the findings on radioactivity in a book . This book became a standard German textbook on radioactivity similar to the book of Curie in French and the book of Rutherford in English . During his forced retirement , he wrote a book on musical instruments and acoustics . 