Gza ( 11511210 ) was a Hungarian royal prince and the youngest son of the King Gza II of Hungary . Prince Gza was brother to the Kings Stephen III and Bla III of Hungary . He traveled to the Holy Land during the Third Crusade with an army of 2,000 Hungarian warriors. # Biography # Prince Gza was born in 1151 , the fourth son of King Gza II of Hungary and his wife , Princess Euphrosyne of Kiev . After King Gza II died , there were several conflicts over the royal succession . Two brothers of King Gza II briefly seized the crown , reigning as Ladislaus II and Stephen IV of Hungary . The prince 's elder brother was crowned Stephen III of Hungary after defeating his uncle in battle . During the reign of Stephen III , the wars against the Byzantine empire continued . Byzantine emperor , Manuel I Komnenos , had previously competed with Gza II on many occasions , as he was determined to expand his influence over Hungary . Manuel I 's mother was Saint Piroska of Hungary , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ always had a great interest in the internal affairs of Hungary . Manuel I and Stephen III eventually resolved this through a peace accord signed in 1163 , in which the Hungarian King 's younger brother Bla , was to be sent to Constantinople in surety . During Stephen III 's rule , he kept his mother Euphrosyne , and his youngest brother , Prince Gza , at court . After Stephen III 's death in 1172 , his next eldest brother , Prince Bla , was recalled from Constantinople to ascend the throne and forestall any attempt at accession by his younger brother , Prince Gza . Within a few months , he was crowned Bla III of Hungary but faced opposition from his own mother , the Queen Dowager , and his brother , Prince Gza , who began conspiring against him to obtain the Crown of Hungary . After a couple of failed attempts , Bla III had them arrested . He imprisoned his mother , but Prince Gza fled to Leopold V , Duke of Austria to seek protection , whereupon the Austrian duke returned him to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ later , Prince Gza escaped once more , fleeing to Bohemia , but Sobslav II , Duke of Bohemia , also returned him to Bla III who imprisoned him again . Prince Gza languished in prison from 1177 to 1189 . Freedom arrived for him in 1189 due to preparations for the Third Crusade . That year , Frederick I , Holy Roman Emperor , arrived in Hungary and was received by King Bla III . Learning of Prince Gza 's predicament , the German emperor asked Bla III to allow the imprisoned Gza to lead a small Hungarian army to the Crusade as an escort . Bla III allowed this , and 2000 Hungarian soldiers left for the Holy Land . After the Third Crusade , and the death of the German emperor , Bla III ordered Gza and his men to return to Hungary , but the Prince and his guard decided to remain in the Holy Land . It is known that Gza took a Byzantine noblewoman as wife between 1190 and 1191 . He had two sons by Princess Irene ( descendant of Piroska ) : Geza @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , who is the ancestor of the Rubempre family , and Istvan ( Stephen ) who served on a crusade with Saint Louis IX of France in 1248 . Stephen had a son , Andrew , a crusading knight based in Venice . Andrew and his sons Felix ( ancestor of the Crouy-Chanel family ) and Mark settled in France . Mark married Catherine Croy-Airaines , heiress to the Croy barony . From this union sprang the Croy family which is still extant . While Prince Gza of Hungary did not succeed in becoming King of Hungary , his grandson Felix ( son of Andrew ) claimed the throne of Hungary in October and November of 1290 . In addition , through the male posterity of Prince Gza ( Ioannes/John ) the rpd dynasty 's male line survives . Historians estimate that Gza died about 1210 because that was the last time he was mentioned by medieval chronicles. # Sources # 