Dr. Arun Nigavekar is an educationist . He was the Chairperson &amp; Vice-Chairperson of UGC ( University Grants Commission ) from 2000 to 2005 . Dr. Nigavekar also was the Vice-Chancellor of University of Pune , considered to be one of the best universities in India . Dr. Nigavekar also helped established the National Assessment and Accreditation Council ( NAAC ) body and as such he was the Founder Director . Dr APJ Kalam , the former President of India has aptly christened him as the ' Father of Quality Education in India ' . He is considered to be one of the most revolutionary thinkers of education in the country . He is a Raja Ramanna Fellow . Dr. Nigavekar is a Physicist and has Ph D in Solid State Physics . # Life and career # Professor Arun Nigavekar , born in 1942 , is a well-known Physicist and renowned educationist with 45 years of experience . His significant contributions have been use of technology for enhancement of utility and quality of higher education and internationalization of higher education . The path breaking one being an @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which he was aptly called as a father of quality movement in higher education in India by none other than the Former President of India , Honorable Dr APJ Abdul Kalam . He was a Dakshina Fellowship holder of Rajaram College in Kolhapur and got educated in Pune and Uppsala in Sweden where he held SIDA Fellowship . He was Chairman and Vice Chairman of UGC between 2000 &amp; 2005 . He was a moving force behind formulating of strategy for development of higher education in the Tenth Plan of Government of India . Before coming to Delhi he was a Vice Chancellor of University of Pune , a university that attained a status of University with Potential for Excellence under his leadership . He has held several positions . Basically a Professor in Materials Science in Pune University since 1977 , he established Center for Advanced Studies in Physics in Pune in 1980 . He has 70 research publications to his credit . He was a Director of Educational Media Research Center in Pune and established Communication Science Department in Pune University in nineties . He was a Visiting Professor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Ontario in Canada in eighties . His contributions in science education , as a founder editor of Physics Educational Journal , a journal of international repute , are recognized globally . He is a permanent member and was Vice-Chairman of Asian Physics Education Network , a UNESCO organization . He was a member of UGC in 1993-1996 and initiated several reforms like decentralization of UGC administration , corpus for higher education institution . He was a founder Director of National Assessment and Accreditation Council , an autonomous body of UGC . He developed instrument and methodology for judging quality in complex Indian higher education system , which is endorsed by International Network for Quality Assuring Agencies in Higher Education ( INQUAHE ) . He was a member of Distance Education Council and is also an adviser to Commonwealth of Learning in Canada . He has been awarded Honorary Doctorate Degree by Tilka Manjhi Bhagalpur University , Nagarjuna University , Guru Nanak Dev University , Jagadguru Rambhadracharya Handicapped University , University of Calicut and Potti Sreeramulu Telugu University . He has won several honors notably being Phia Foundation Award , UNESCO honor @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Shiromani Award , Delhi Ratan Award . Authority on Higher Education Dr Nigavekar has been authority on Higher Education in India and several leading government and well respected media publications like the Financial Chronicle , Sakal ( a leading Marathi newspaper ) , the Times of India , the Hindu refer to his thoughts and fall back on him for Education related matters . In connection to the Supreme of Court of India ruling that education authorities must usher in transparency and provide photocopies of candidates ' answer books under the Right to Information Act ( RTI ) , Dr Nigavekar welcomes this push . Simultaneously he suggests that the State Education Boards should look at creating extra management system for handling the flood of applications which are bound to come . Union Public Service Commission ( UPSC ) has appointed a committee of experts , headed by Prof. Arun S. Nigavekar , to review the existing structure of Civil Services ( Main ) examination and suggest necessary changes # Other Contributions # The Maharashtra State Government in the 2011 , has set up two expert panels to formulate and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which was created due to meteoroid impact about 50 million years ago . Dr Nigavekar will be heading the superior of the two committees . 