Stat-Ease , Inc. is a privately held company producing statistical software in Minneapolis , Minnesota founded by Pat Whitcomb in 1982 . The company currently has 14 employees . The company provides software packages for engineers and scientists using Design of experiments methods ( DOE ) for optimizing development of products and processes . It also provides DOE training and consulting services . # History # Stat-Ease was founded by Pat Whitcomb while at General Mills in 1982 . He later brought in two of his General Mills colleaguesTryg Helseth as Programmer and Mark Anderson as Business Manager . Whitcomb and Anderson are Principals of the company today . The company sold its first software in June 1985 . Sales took off in 1987 when the software was described as incredibly easy to use in a review of DOE software . In 1988 , the company released its first version of Design-Expert software , which provided the tools for response surface methods ( RSM ) for process optimization . This package complemented Design-Ease , which handled factorial designs , and also provided statistical tools for optimizing mixtures in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ added the features of Design-Ease into Design-Expert version 5 and translated it from DOS to Windows . Both packages are still marketed today . In 1996 , ' ' Forbes ' ' Magazine said the new mantra for process improvement is multivariate testing ( MVT ) and added : A Minneapolis software firm , Stat-Ease , sells most of the software these MVT types use . Felix Grant , reviewing Design-Expert version 7.1.3 in ' ' Scientific Computing Magazine ' ' said : In a mature , well-established product which dominates its market , upgrades should be expected to reflect developing practice and display evolutionary growth rather than piling on attention-seeking gimmicks ; and so it is here ... Core functions have been extended usefully .. the design editor in Design-Expert ( DX ) has long been a strong point , providing a central cockpit from which to intuitively refine and test most aspects , but various new control features have now been added to the package , small in themselves but significantly enhancing productive control. # Statistical design of experiments # Minimum-Run Resolution IV and Minimum-Run Resolution V experimental designs @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Minimum-run resolution IV ( MR4 ) factorial designs estimate all main effects , clear of two-factor or higher interactions , in a minimum of experimental runs . MR4 designs work well for factor screening . Minimum-run resolution V ( MR5 ) factorial designs estimate all main effects and two-factor interactions in a minimum of experimental runs . MR5 designs are typically done after screening to a vital few factors , which then need to be studied in more depth in case they interact . Whitcomb and Oehlert won the Shewell award in 2008 for invention of the half-normal plot of effects for general factorials . They also developed statistical tools in 2008 to calculate power for a broad range of experimental designs and precision as a power substitute via fraction of design space ( FDS ) for response surface methods ( RSM ) and mixture design . Whitcomb and Anderson have written two non-academic books on DOE ; the books include a free educational version of Stat-Ease software . # Applications # Alberto-Culver developed a new line of scrubs using Design-Expert software from Stat-Ease . Stat-Ease was used by Los @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ designed to demonstrate the application of model validation techniques to a structural dynamics problem . Stat-Ease was used by researchers to design experiments to optimize the effects of storage on the physico-chemical , microbiological and sensory quality on bottlegourd-basil leaf juice . Invitrogen used Stat-Ease Design-Expert software to optimize a cell culture bioproduction system . The researcher states : This experiment demonstrates how a robotically controlled microbioreactor system can be combined with DoE methods to optimize cell-culture media and feeding strategies . The new process is rich in information and provides a solid understanding of the most influential factors affecting performance of specific cell lines . The United States Environmental Protection Agency ( EPA ) evaluated the physicochemical properties of nine surfactants used in the remediation of perchloroethylene ( PCE ) in aqueous solutions using a response surface quadratic design model of experiment . Design-Expert software was used to generate the experimental design and perform the analysis . The research provided predictive models for alterations in the physiochemical properties of pore fluid to surfactant enhanced acquifer remediation of PCE . Researchers investigated the possibility of producing poly-3-hydroxybutyrate ( P(3HB) polyester using @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ optimized using DOE performed with Design-Expert software . Researchers at the University of Nottingham demonstrated that the DNA extracted from both green and roasted beans could be used in a restriction fragment length polymorphism ( RFLP ) based analysis to dierentiate between Arabica and Robusta types of coee . Design-Expert software was used for design of experiments comparing and optimizing yields using a variety of commercial DNA extraction kits . 