The Bedia a community of Bihar and jharkhand , Bedia , they believe that they originally lived on Mohdipahar and have descended from the union of Vedbansi prince with a Munda girl . The other view is that a section of the Kurmis were outcasts and to be known as the Bedia or Wandering Kurmis . The Bedia , sometimes pronounced Beria , are a Hindu caste found in the state of Uttar Pradesh in India . # Origin # The community has several names , like Bedia Kudmi , Choto Kudmi , Shershahbadia , Bhathia , Wandering Kurmis , Maldahiya and Badia and Bedia too , however its official name is Sharshahbadia . The word ' ' bedia ' ' is a corrupt form of the Hindi word ' ' behara ' ' , which means a forest dweller . They are a nomadic tribe , that had been notified under the Criminal Tribes Act . According to early British scholars , they were one of the many nomadic tribes found in North India , and were of the same stock as the rajputs . According to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lost status , after their defeat at the hands of the Mughals . The community was connected with some bad works , as well as petty theft . They speak Awadhi and are found mainly in the districts of Bahraich , Barabanki , Basti , Agra , Faizabad , Gonda and Kanpur . After independence , they were denotified in 1952 , when the Criminal Tribes Act was repealed . # Present circumstances # According to Risley , the Bedia are divided into septs . The marriage age for boys and girls is twenty to twenty five years and respectively A marriage is arranged thorough monogamy is prevalent . Married women lives like a normal Hindu lady put all the shrangar and all those traditional clothes.They follow the rule of patrilocal residence . Either spouse can seek divorce with social approval on grounds of adultery , barrenness , maladjustment , cruelty and laziness . Remarriage of widows and divorcces is permitted and a widow can marry her late husbands brother.The Bedia live both in nuclear and extended families.Sons inherit parental property in equal measure while the eldest son succeeds to his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . The marriage rites are performed at the bridegrooms house . The dead are buried . The death rites observed are telnahan and daskarma . The Bedia are the followers of the traditional tribal religion . Their family and clan deities are Mai , Mudkati Kundri Bansa Darha , etc . The village deities worshipped by them are Jher-buri Gawandeti Mahadania , Durga and the regional deities are Palcharu and Badpahari . They visit the annual fairs at Rajarappa , Hundru and Jonha falls and Jaganathpur.The Bedia celebrate festivals like Phagun , Sarhul , Karma , Jitia and Sohrai . The Bedia who have settled down in West Bengal , are also known as the Bedia Kudmi , Choto Kudmi or San Kurmi . They speak in Kudmali , an Indo-Ayan language , at home and Bengali for inter-group communication . The Bengali and Devanagari scripts are used . The Bedia are divided into three territorial groupings , the Nathotiya , Jogiara and Gangaparia . Each of these groups is strictly endogamous . There is also a further division between those who still follow their traditional occupation of bad works and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . A number of Bedia have given up their nomadic lifestyle , and are now settled agriculturists . However , the majority are mainly sharecroppers and agricultural labourers . Those Bedia that are still engaged in their activity often employ . They live in multi-caste villages . Each of their settlement contains an formal caste council known as biradari panchayat . The panchayat resolves most intra community disputes . Thesa biradari panchayats ate headed by headmen known as a ' ' chaudhary ' ' . The position of the ' ' chaudhary ' ' is hereditary , and these families exercise considerable influence over the community . The Bedia are Hindu , originally formerly known as beriya and famous among the communities about their dedication to work and businesses # See also # * Rajput # References # Ethnographic notes on the scheduled tribes of West Bengal Author : Manas Kamal Chowdhuri ; West Bengal ( India ) . Cultural Research Institute 