Organocerium compounds are chemical compounds that contain one or more chemical bond between carbon and cerium . Organocerium chemistry is the corresponding science exploring properties , structure and reactivity of these compounds . In general , organocerium compounds are not isolable , and are rather studied in solution via their reactions with other species . There are notable exceptions , such as the Cp*  3  Ce(III) complex shown at right , but they are relatively rare . Complexes involving cerium of various oxidation states are known : though lanthanides are most stable in the +3 state , complexes of cerium(IV) have been reported . These latter compounds have found less widespread use due to their oxidizing nature , and the majority of literature regarding organometallic cerium complexes involves the +3 oxidation state . In particular , organocerium compounds have been developed extensively as non-basic carbon nucleophiles in organic synthesis . Because cerium is relatively non-toxic , they serve as an environmentally friendly alternative to other organometallic reagents . Several reviews detailing these applications have been published . # Structure # The solution structure of organocerium reagents @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ heavily on the manner in which it is prepared . In particular , those derived from organolithium reagents likely are believed to form something similar to a ' true ' organocerium structure , R-CeCl  2  , while those derived from Grignard reagents are more appropriately characterized as -ate complexes of the form R-MgXCeCl  3  . Furthermore , the solvent seems to alter the solution structure of the complex , with differences noted between reagents prepared in diethyl ether and tetrahydrofuran . There is evidence that the parent chloride forms a polymeric species in THF solution , of the form Ce(-Cl)  2  ( H  2  O ) ( THF )  2   n  , but whether this type of polymer exists once the organometallic reagent is formed is unknown . # Preparation # Organocerium compounds are typically prepared via transmetallation from the respective organolithium or Grignard reagent . The most common cerium source for this purpose is cerium ( III ) chloride , which can be obtained in anhydrous form via dehydration of the commercially available heptahydrate . Precomplexation with tetrahydrofuran @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ with most procedures involving vigorous stirring for a period of no less than 2 hours . Reagents derived from alkyl , alkynyl , and alkenyl organometallic reagents as well as cerium enolates have been described . The stability of each is approximately the same regardless of origin ( i.e. lithiate or Grignard ) , with the exception of alkenyl reagents , which tend to be more stable when derived from the corresponding lithiate . The reasons for this are still poorly understood . Functional groups compatible with the parent organometallic compound are generally also stable upon transmetallation to cerium . The figure below summarizes the kinds of organocerium compounds that have been prepared , highlighting several of the more ' exotic ' species reported in the literature . # Reactions # Organocerium reagents are used almost exclusively for addition reactions in the same vein as organolithium and Grignard reagents . To this end , they have a number of particularly useful characteristics that distinguish them from their more common counterparts . They are incredibly nucleophilic , allowing additions to imines in the absence of additional Lewis acid catalysts , making them @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this high reactivity , organocerium reagents are almost entirely non-basic , tolerating the presence of free alcohols and amines as well as enolizable -protons . The oxophilicity of cerium imparts strong 1,2-selectivity in reactions with conjugated electrophiles similarly to organolithium reagents . At the same time , organocerium reagents can be used to synthesize ketones from acyl compounds without over-addition , as seen with organocuprates . This dichotomy illustrates the unique reactivity of organolanthanide reagents . Finally , organocerium reagents have been employed in a number of total syntheses . Shown below is a key coupling step in the total synthesis of roseophilin , a potent antitumor antibiotic . 