Ludwig Camerarius ( 22 January 1573 , Nuremberg 4 October 1651 , probably in Heidelberg ) was a German statesman , lawyer , minister and head of Frederick V 's government-in-exile in the Hague . He also served Swedish interests later in his life . He was the son of the scholar Joachim Camerarius the Younger and grandson of Joachim Camerarius the Elder . The ' ' Collectio Camerariana ' ' collection of letters ( now held in the Staatsbibliothek Mnchen ) includes his correspondence from 1621 as well as several letters from Philipp Melanchthon , Martin Luther , Ulrich Zwingli , Jakob Micyllus , Desiderius Erasmus and the poet Georg Fabricius , mostly written to his grandfather Joachimthese form an important source for the Protestant Reformation and the Counter-Reformation. # Life # From 1588 he studied at Altdorf bei Nrnberg , then from 2 February 1592 in Helmstedt , from summer 1592 in Leipzig and then from 1597 in Basel . In Basel he graduated as a Doctor of Law . On 17 April 1599 he married Anna Maria Modesta Pastoir ( 15 July 1580 in Heidelberg @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ children . After his graduation he practised from 1597 onwards at the Reichskammergericht in Speyer . In 1598 he entered Frederick V 's service and was made a Councillor ( ' ' Hofrat ' ' ) in 1610 and a Privy Councillor ( ' ' Geheimer Rat ' ' ) in 1611 . Under the overall direction of Christian I , governor of the Upper Palatine and chancellor of Palatine Electorate , Camerarius became ' ' de facto ' ' head of the Palatine 's foreign policy andanxious for promotionaimed to gain Frederick the throne of Bohemia . He is thought to be the originator of the plan to put up Maximilian I , Duke of Bavaria as an opponent to Ferdinand II at the 1619 imperial election . After Frederick was elected king of Bohemia , Camerarius followed him to Prague and in 1620 was made Privy Councillor and vice-chancellor of Silesia . After Frederick 's fall in November 1620 , Camerarius followed him into exile in the Netherlands and wrote pamphlets and books attempting to refute the Palatinate 's causing the Thirty Years ' War . Especially after his @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ convinced that Protestantism 's main priority was to lead a Europe-wide war against the Habsburgs and the Catholic League . In 1627 Camerarius was succeeded as head of the government in exile by Johann Joachim Rusdorf . As early as 1626 he had gone over to serving Sweden in the Netherlands , though he remained committed to the Palatinate 's cause , and worked for the Swedes until 1640 . Until 1651 he was based in Groningen and returned to Heidelberg shortly before his death in 1651. # Works # * ' ' Friderici dei gratia Bohemiae regis , comitis palatini rheni , electoris &amp;c. declaratio publica , Cur Regni Bohemiae annexarumque Provinciarum Regimen in se susceperit ' ' , 1619 , * ' ' Prodromus , Oder Vortrab , Nothwendiger Rettung vornehmer Evangelischer Hohen und niedern Standts , betrangten und verleumbden Personen unschuldt , durch grndliche entdeckung der Papistischen schdlichen Intention unnd Vorhabens : Das ist : Warhaffter unnd glaubwirdiger Abdruck etzlicher intercipirten sehr weit ausehenden gefhrlichen Schreiben und Schrifften , welche au den Originalien , mit flei abcopirt , und theils au denen Sprachen , darinnen sie geschrieben , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' ' , 1622 * ' ' Cancellaria hispanica : Adjecta sunt Acta publica , Hoc est : Scripta et Epistolae authenticae , e quibus partim infelicis belli in Germania partim Proscriptionis in Electorem Palatinum scopus praecipuus apparet ... ' ' , 1622 * ' ' Bericht und Antwort uff die vornembste Capita , P und Puncten der bayer-anhaltischen geheimen Cantzley : sampt etlichen Beylagen ' ' , 1623 * ' ' Mysterium iniquitatis , sive secreta secretorum turco-papistica secreta : Contra Libellum famosum , sub titulo Secreta calvino-turcica , auctore quodam personato Theonesto Cogmandolo Politiae Christianae professore , aliquoties editum . XCV considerationibus revelata , et totidem eius malitiosis et ex mera calumnia conflatis considerationibus ex parallelo opposita .. Justinopoli ' ' , 1625 