The Battle of Gogw or Defense of Gogw ( , ) was fought on 24 August 1109 at the Silesian town of Gogw , between the Kingdom of Poland and the Holy Roman Empire . Recorded by the medieval chronicler Gallus Anonymus it is one of the most well known battles in Polish history . The Polish forces were led by Duke Bolesaw III Wrymouth , while the Imperial forces were under command of King Henry V of Germany . Bolesaw was victorious . # Prelude # After a long-term rivalry within the ruling Piast dynasty , Bolesaw III in 1107 had finally expelled his elder half-brother and co-ruler Duke Zbigniew from Poland . Zbigniew fled to the Holy Roman Empire where he sought help from King Henry V. The king however did not take action , as he was stuck in an inner-Hungarian rivalry , supporting the rpd prince lmos against his brother King Coloman , and had started an armed expedition to Bratislava ( Pozsony ) . Henry tangled with Bolesaw , when the Polish duke , loyal to King Coloman , took the occasion to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as the Bohemian duke Svatopluk heard of the invasion , he left the Imperial army to oust the Polish troops . Left alone , King Henry was forced to abandon his Hungarian campaign . Chafing under this defeat , Henry finally associated himself with Zbigniew and requested Bolesaw to reinstate his half-brother as co-ruler , as well as to pay an annual tribute to the Empire . The Polish duke categorically rejected both demands . The next year the German forces gathered at Erfurt , crossed the Polish border near Krosno on the Bbr river and on St. Bartholomew 's Day approached the fortified town of Gogw ( Svatopluk 's troops arrived in September ) . At first they defeated a Polish garrison which was stationed near the town , while Bolesaw rushed from his battle against the Pomeranians at Nako. # Siege # According to Gallus ' ' ' Gesta principum Polonorum ' ' , King Henry resorted to lay siege to Gogw but granted its citizens a five day ceasefire to ask their king for permission to surrender . He allegedly even made the townsmen give up their children @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to give them back alive no matter what Bolesaw 's answer would be . The Polish duke however had no intention to hand over the city and ordered the defense of Gogw . After the five days were up , King Henry began to barrage the town . Breaking his promise , he chained the child hostages to his siege engines , hoping that the people of Gogw would not shoot their own offspring , which would allow him to conquer the Polish settlement . However , Gallus stated that his cruelty towards children only strengthened the resolve of Gogw 's defenders . Several harsh attacks by the Imperial army were repulsed , while Henry suffered significant losses by Polish guerilla warriors . After many days of unsuccessful fighting , the king was forced to abandon the siege and march south . # Aftermath # King Henry 's campaign turned out to be a complete failure , when it ended in Bolesaw 's final victory at the Battle of Hundsfeld ( ' ' Psie Pole ' ' ) . Duke Svatopluk was assassinated - probably by Bohemian Vrovci liensmen - still @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Vladislaus reconciled with Bolesaw , whereafter Zbigniew was able to return to Poland in 1111 , only to be arrested and blinded by his half-brother shortly afterwards . Bolesaw 's position towards the Empire was strengthened , and in the following years he was able to consolidate his rule in Pomerania and Lubusz Land . It was not until 1157 , when Emperor Frederick Barbarossa in aid of the Silesian duke Wadysaw II the Exile launched a successful campaign to the Polish lands . After centuries-long ambivalent relations with Germany , the successful defense and the tradition of Henry 's cruelty had evolved to a key element in the memory of the Polish nation . A first memorial stone was erected by the Gogw citizens on the occasion of the 850th anniversary of the battle in 1959 . On 1 September 1979 a large Socialist Realistic memorial to the Gogw children was inaugurated to commemorate not only the 870th anniversary but also the 40th memorial day of the German Invasion of Poland . 