Giuseppe Sinopoli ( ; 2 November 1946 &amp;ndash ; 20 April 2001 ) was an Italian conductor and composer . # Biography # Sinopoli was born in Venice , Italy , and later studied at the Benedetto Marcello Conservatory in Venice under Ernesto Rubin de Cervin and at Darmstadt , including being mentored in composition with Karlheinz Stockhausen . He also obtained a degree in medicine from the University of Padua , and completed a dissertation on criminal anthropology . # Career # Sinopoli began to make a name for himself as a composer of serial works , becoming professor of contemporary and electronic music at the Venice Conservatoire Benedetto Marcello in 1972 , and a major proponent of the new movement in Venice for contemporary music . He studied conducting at the Vienna Academy of Music under Hans Swarowsky ; and in Venice , founded the Bruno Maderna Ensemble in the 1970s . His single most famous composition is perhaps his opera ' ' Lou Salom ' ' , which received its first production in Munich in 1981 , with Karan Armstrong in the title role . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , and served in this position until 1994 , making a number of recordings with them , including music by Elgar and the complete symphonies of Mahler . He became principal conductor of the Staatskapelle Dresden in 1992 . He also joined the Bayreuth Festival 's roster of conductors . He is best known for his intense and sometimes controversial interpretations of opera , especially works by Italian composers and Richard Strauss . Sinopoli specialized in late-nineteenth century and early-twentieth century music , from Wagner and Verdi to Strauss , Mahler and the Second Viennese School . His conducting was the object of much controversy , especially in the symphonic genre , with some berating the eccentricity of his interpretations and even doubting his conducting abilities ( in Norman Lebrecht 's book ' ' The Maestro Myth ' ' Lebrecht interviewed many players who had performed under Sinopoli who insisted that as a conductor he was actually incompetent ) while others praised the insightfulness of his often intellectual approach to works . On 20 April 2001 , Sinopoli died of a heart attack while conducting Giuseppe Verdi 's ' ' Aida @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ performance was dedicated to the memory of the company 's late chief director , Gtz Friedrich . Two nights later , Marcello Viotti stepped in to direct ' ' Aida ' ' , and dedicated his performance to Sinopoli 's memory . The funeral in Rome on 23 April was attended by the Italian President and Prime Minister , as well as a large contingent from La Scala . He was survived by his wife Silvia and two sons . His books include ' ' Masterpieces of Greek Ceramics from the Sinopoli Collection ' ' . He died two days before receiving his Laurea in Archeology at Universit La Sapienza in Rome . Sinopoli 's last recordings included Richard Strauss 's ' ' Ariadne auf Naxos ' ' and ' ' Friedenstag ' ' , as well as Dvok 's ' ' Stabat Mater ' ' . # Giuseppe Sinopoli Festival # Every October since 2005 , Taormina Arte has dedicated a festival to Giuseppe Sinopoli , the artistic director of the Music section of the Taormina Festival from 1989 to 1997 . The Giuseppe Sinopoli Festival celebrates the man not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as a composer , a doctor , an archaeologist and intellectual , with a variety of events from music and literature , theatre and art to conferences , exhibitions , publications and concerts . Every year the Festival welcomes important orchestras to Italy . On the occasion of the first edition of the Giuseppe Sinopoli Festival the Sinopoli Chamber Orchestra was formed , in collaboration with the Conservatorio Arcangelo Corelli of Messina . The Orchestra , made up of young talented musicians , both pupils and teachers of the Conservatorio , mostly performs works by Giuseppe Sinopoli. 