Twin-turbo or biturbo refers to a turbocharged engine , in which two turbochargers compress the intake charge . More specifically called parallel twin-turbos . Other kinds of turbocharging , include sequential turbocharging , and staged turbocharging . The latter is used in diesel automobile racing applications . # Parallel twin-turbo # Paralleled twin-turbo refers to the turbocharger configuration in which two identical turbochargers function simultaneously , splitting the turbocharging duties equally . Each turbocharger is driven by half of the engine 's spent exhaust energy . In most applications , the compressed air from both turbos is combined in a common intake manifold and sent to the individual cylinders . Usually each turbocharger is mounted to its own individual exhaust/turbo manifold , but on inline-type engines both turbochargers can be mounted to a single turbo manifold . Parallel twin turbos applied to V-shaped engines are usually mounted with one turbo assigned to each cylinder bank , providing packaging symmetry and simplifying plumbing over a single turbo setup . When used on inline engines parallel twin turbos are commonly applied with two smaller turbos , which can provide similar @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . Some examples of parallel twin-turbo inline engines are Nissan 's RB26DETT , BMW 's N54 and Volvo 's B6284T and B6294T . Some examples of V formation engines with parallel twin-turbos include Mitsubishi 's 6A12TT and 6G72TT ; Nissan 's VG30DETT and VR38DETT ; and Audi 's 1997-2002 S4 ( B5 ) , 1997-2005 A6 , and 2003-2004 RS6 . While a parallel twin-turbo set-up theoretically has less turbo lag than a single turbocharger set up , this is not always the case due to many factors . Marginally reduced combined inertial resistance , simplified exhaust plumbing , and the simultaneous spooling of both turbos means that there can still be a noticeable bit of lag , especially in high-flow turbo/high boost applications . Some ways to counter this are to use a light pressure set up with smaller turbos , where the turbos are designed to output less boost but spool earlier . While this setup sacrifices some top end power , it still has less lag than a similar engine with a single turbo set up making the same power . Another system would be the use of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the guide vanes depending on the exhaust pressure , giving the system excellent power throughout the rev range . Once used mainly in turbocharged diesel engines , Chrysler was the first to use it in mass-production gasoline-powered vehicles with the Shelby CSX , debuted in 1989 . It is possible to use parallel operation with more than two turbochargers . Two such examples are the Bugatti EB110 and Bugatti Veyron , both of which run four turbochargers in parallel . The EB110 runs 4 turbos on a 3.5 litre V12 engine , producing 542 hp ( 404 kW ) at 8000 rpm , while the Veyron uses an 8.0 litre 16 cylinder engine to generate 1001PSkW hp lk=on. # Sequential turbos # Sequential turbos refer to a set-up in which the motor utilizes one turbocharger for lower engine speeds , and a second or both turbochargers at higher engine speeds . Typically , larger high-flow turbochargers are not as efficient at low RPM , resulting in lower intake manifold pressures under these conditions . On the other hand , smaller turbos spool up quickly at low RPM but can not supply @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ mid engine speeds , when available spent exhaust energy is minimal , only one relatively small turbocharger. ( called the primary turbocharger ) is active . During this period , all of the engine 's exhaust energy is directed to the primary turbocharger only , providing the small turbo 's benefits of a lower boost threshold , minimal turbo lag , and increased power output at low engine speeds . As RPM increases , the secondary turbocharger is partially activated in order to pre-spool prior to its full utilization . Once a preset engine speed or boost pressure is attained , valves controlling compressor and turbine flow through the secondary turbocharger are opened completely . ( The primary turbocharger is deactivated at this point in some applications . ) In this way a full twin-turbocharger setup provides the benefits associated with a large turbo , including maximum power output , without the disadvantage of increased turbo lag . Sequential turbocharger systems provide a way to decrease turbo lag without compromising ultimate boost output and engine power . Perhaps the most noteworthy application of this system is the fourth-generation Toyota Supra ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ most reliable sequential turbo system yet fitted to a production automobile , with a reported failure rate of less than 1% as of 2011 . Other examples of cars with a sequential twin-turbo setup include the 1986-1988 Porsche 959 , the 1990-1995 Eunos Cosmo JC , 1992-2002 Mazda RX-7 FD3S Turbo ( 13B-REW engine ) , and the 1994-2005 JDM Subaru Legacy GT , GT-B &amp; B4 RSK ( EJ20TT engine ) . # Staged turbocharging # A sequential turbo can also refer to a system where the output pressure must be greater than can be provided by a single turbo , commonly called a staged twin turbo system . In this case , multiple similarly sized turbochargers are used in sequence , but both operate constantly . The first turbo boosts pressure as much as possible ( for example to three times the intake pressure ) . Subsequent turbos take the charge from the previous stage and compresses it further ( for example to an additional three times intake pressure , for a total boost of nine times atmospheric pressure ) . This configuration is commonly found on piston engine @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ lower engine speed ( and thus where turbo lag is not a primary design consideration ) , and where the intake pressure is quite low due to low atmospheric pressure at altitude , requiring a very high pressure ratio . High-performance diesel engines also sometimes use this configuration , since diesel engines do not suffer from pre-ignition issues and can use significantly higher boost pressure than Otto cycle engines . # Advantages in Diesel emissions # While spark ignition engines have fallen out of favor of the sequential turbo design , many diesel companies now make engines with sequential turbos in order to reduce emissions . Caterpillar Inc . ACERT engines utilize sequential turbos as well as International on some of their newest engines . 