Roger Dowson Engineering , also known as RD Motorsport , was an automotive engineering company , and an auto racing team run by Roger Dowson . The company was founded in 1982 , and was most notable for running the works MG Metros in the British Saloon Car Championship in 1983 ( and running them until 1985 , after Austin Rover had withdrawn their support ) and the works Mazda teams in the British Touring Car Championship from 1992 until 1994. # History # Roger Dowson Engineering was established in 1982 by Roger Dowson , initially to build Group A specification MG Metros ( in naturally aspirated and turbocharged form . ) The turbocharged Metros had a claimed maximum power output of 190hpkW PS 0 . They ran the cars in the British Saloon Car Championship in 1983 under the Unipart with Daily Express banner , initially entering Patrick Watts in a naturally-aspirated MG Metro in round two , before entering Tony Pond in a Metro Turbo from round four onwards . Watts switched to the Metro Turbo from round eight onwards , whilst Martin Brundle was entered @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ took two fourth places in Class C whilst driving the naturally-aspirated Metro , whilst Tony Pond took a Class B victory in the Metro Turbo . For 1984 , the team entered two Metro Turbos for the first six rounds of the series , driven by Robin Brundle and Watts under the Computervision Racing with Esso banner , although Austin Rover had withdrawn their works support . Watts took three Class B victories in the first four races , with Brundle taking the other . The team only competed in the season opener of the 1985 BSCC season , with Steve Soper driving a Metro Turbo . He failed to finish , due to a carburettor issue . In 1987 , Roger Dowson Engineering ran the ESSO Metro Challenge , a one-make series for MG Metro Turbos . They also made the kits used to prepare the cars for racing . 1987 also saw Roger Dowson Engineering enter the new British Touring Car Championship , running Jerry Mahony in a Class A Ford Sierra RS Cosworth in round six and round seven . The venture was not initially successful , as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the series for 1988 , now under the Arquati Racing Team banner , with Mahony entering all 12 events in a Ford Sierra RS500 . Mahony won the season opener at Silverstone , his first , and only , overall BTCC victory . Mahony also took four third-place finishes , and finished second in Class A ( seventh overall ) at the end of the season . The team entered Mahony under the Arquati Racing Team banner again for 1989 , but with less success ; Mahony took one solitary podium , and finished 15th in class ( 41st overall ) . Mahony left the team for 1990 , and joined BRR Motorsports , leaving Roger Dowson Engineering without a driver ( or main sponsor - Mahony took the Arquati sponsorship with him . ) For 1990 , Roger Dowson Engineering built the cars used in that year 's Mazda MX-5 UK Cup , a series won by Patrick Watts . In 1992 , Roger Dowson Engineering ran the works Mazda cars in the British Touring Car Championship , under the Shell Mazda Racing Team name . Watts was entered in @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to be particularly successful ; Watts finished 18th overall in the driver 's standings , and Mazda finished sixth , and last , in the manufacturer 's standings . For 1993 , the team replaced the 323F with a Xedos 6 , under the Mazda Racing Team banner . It would be a much more successful partnership ; Watts finished in 15th place , with 24 points more than he 'd gained the previous season , although Mazda still finished last in the manufacturer 's standings . Watts also qualified on pole for the first , and only , time in his BTCC career , in the Snetterton round of the championship . For the 1994 BTCC season , Dowson collaborated with Team Dynamics to run the works Mazdas , and expanded to a two-car effort ; with David Leslie and Matt Neal driving under the Team Mazda banner . 1994 would prove to be less successful than 1993 had been ; Neal was forced to withdraw from the series , after suffering injuries from a big crash in the sixth round at Silverstone , whilst Leslie withdrew halfway through the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ were a pair of eighth positions at the first two rounds , whilst Neal 's was a tenth at Snetterton . Neal finished 23rd in the championship , level with privateers James Thompson and Nigel Smith , whilst Leslie finished 20th . Mazda were classified tenth , and last , in the manufacturer 's championship . Following the withdrawal from the BTCC , Team Dynamics and Roger Dowson Engineering fitted the running gear from the Xedos 6 into a Mazda 323F , with the intention of encouraging Mazda to return to the BTCC . Matt Neal was entered in the car for that year 's FIA Touring Car World Cup , but without any real success - Neal finished 22nd , and a lap down on the leader . Slim Borgudd , whom had won the Nordic Touring Car Championship in a Xedos 6 entered by Roger Dowson Engineering that season , faired little better - finishing 21st . For 1995 , Roger Dowson Engineering built another 323F , and intended to enter Borgrudd in the BTCC with the car , under the Team Magic banner . However , the car @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ until 2000 , when Nick Cresswell bought the car , and entered it in that year 's Northwest Sports and Saloon Car Championship . In 2002 , Roger Dowson Engineering prepared the first ever hybrid rally car , based on a Toyota Prius , for Nik Berg and Tim Bampton . The car was entered in that year 's Midnight Sun to Red Sea Rally , an event that ran from Ostersund in Sweden to Aqaba in Jordan . The car finished in 15th , and became the first hybrid to finish an FIA-sanctioned event . 