The Juvenile Diabetes Cure Alliance ( JDCA ) is a New York-based nonprofit focused on bringing about a practical cure for type 1 diabetes . The organization defines a practical cure as any solution that gives people living with the disease the chance to live a normal , unrestricted life . The JDCA is a privately funded research and advocacy organization for type 1 diabetes donors . The independent nonprofit conducts analysis on major diabetes charities such as JDRF , writes reports on cure progress and charity spending , educates donors , and provides counsel for large donors on structuring their gifts . # History # The JDCA was founded in 2011 by Brian Kelly , chairman of gaming company Activision Blizzard , after his son was diagnosed with type 1 diabetes . Kelly founded the organization to accelerate a cure for type 1 within his sons lifetime . He wanted to bring best practices from the business world to drive accountability in the nonprofit research world and stimulate high-impact giving . The mission of the JDCA is to direct donor contributions to the charitable organizations that most @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 1 Practical Cure by 2025 . The JDCA is a 501(c) ( 3 ) organization funded by the Brian and Joelle Kelly Family Foundation . It does not directly solicit donations . # Advocacy # The JDCA advocates for research spending toward a practical cure that would enable people with type 1 to live with blood sugar testing once a week or less ; eat an unrestricted diet ; require only a simple regimen of medication ; sleep worry-free ; experience only minimal diabetes side effects ; and experience fast recovery from surgery . According the organizations research , only six research projects out of more than 300 currently in human clinical trials meet that definition . By publishing its own reports , the JDCA tracks how much money is being donated to diabetes research foundations and whether the funds are being used for cure research or other areas such as non-cure research , administrative expenses or public education . The JDCA evaluates and analyzes the finances of diabetes charities based on how publicly traded companies report their earnings and expenses , providing its network of alliance members with information on @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cure research . In 2013 , author Brenda Novak donated all the proceeds from the ninth annual Brenda Novak for the Cure of Diabetes online auction to practical cure research at the Diabetes Research Institute . # Research # The JDCA issues regular reports on diabetes charities and research organizations . Its major annual report , State of the Cure , analyzes the donation revenue and spending of diabetes charities , including JDRF , American Diabetes Association , Joslin Diabetes Center and Diabetes Research Institute Foundation . The 2013 report found that only 2 percent of the funds donated to those organizations is spent on research that would deliver a cure for type 1 diabetes by 2025 . According to the JDCA , there are currently four pathways that meet the definition of a Practical Cure : islet transplantation ; drugs that would stop autoimmune attack and enable cells to regenerate ; devices that would reliably replace the function of the pancreas ; and cell retraining therapies . Within those categories , there are six projects in human clinical trials that could deliver a cure by 2025 : *Living Cell Technologies @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Lab at Mass Generals BCG Vaccine *ViaCytes stem cell therapy *Sanford Researchs combination therapy *Cliniques Universitaires Saint-Luc Monolayer Cellular Device Additionally , the JDCA tracks projects in animal and late-stage preclinical testing . The JDCA does not believe that diabetes foundations should abandon research projects that target complications , glucose control and prevention . Rather , the organization suggests that 25 percent of donations should support practical cure research initiatives . # Criticism # The JDCAs approach has been criticized as controversial for its focus on outcomes and expediency rather than traditional methods of deciding what projects to fund . Critics of the JDCA have stated that the definition of a cure can vary , a cure by 2025 is unobtainable and that treatment is an equally valid outlet for funding . Diabetes charities point out that they focus on goals that go beyond finding a cure , such as teaching people how to prevent the disease or reduce its effects through healthy eating and exercise . # References # 