: ' ' For the Honduran political party , see Revolutionary Nationalist Movement ( Honduras ) . ' ' The Revolutionary Nationalist Movement ( ) is a Bolivian political party , perhaps the most important in the country during the 20th century . At the legislative elections in 2002 , the party won , in an alliance with the Free Bolivia Movement , 26.9% of the popular vote and 36 out of 130 seats in the Chamber of Deputies and 11 out of 27 seats in the Senate . Its candidate at the presidential elections , Gonzalo Snchez de Lozada , won 22.5% of the popular vote and was subsequently confirmed by parliament as president . After the 2002 elections , it ruled in a coalition with the Revolutionary Left Movement , with Snchez as president ( he had been president from 1993 to 1997 ) . Snchez was overthrown in a 2003 popular uprising , and the party 's future is uncertain , especially as its last government has been tarnished by serious accusations of corruption , mismanagement , and even homicidal repression . The Revolutionary Nationalist @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Hernn Siles Zuazo . It eventually attracted some of the brightest members of the Bolivian intelligentsia . Among the party 's most prominent supporters one can name ( in addition to Paz and Siles ) historical figures such as Humberto Guzmn Fricke , Juan Lechn , Carlos Montenegro , Walter Guevara Arze , Javier del Granado , Augusto Cspedes , Lydia Gueiler , Guillermo Bedregal , and Gonzalo Snchez de Lozada , a number of whom became presidents of Bolivia . At the time , it was a leftist/reformist party , along the lines of similar Latin American parties such as the Dominican Revolutionary Party , Democratic Action of Venezuela , and the Peruvian Aprista Party . The MNR first came to power in 1943 , in support of the reformist military regime of Gualberto Villarroel . It was at the time tainted , however , by the alleged pro-fascist sympathies of various of its leaders , and the United States ( then at war with the Axis ) insisted that its members be removed from the Villarroel government in exchange for official recognition . The Revolutionary Nationalist Movement led a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its first incarnation , until being overthrown by a 1964 military coup . Siles ( president from 1956 to 1960 ) and Paz Estenssoro ( president from 195256 and 196064 ) were the top leaders of that Revolutionary period , establishing the universal vote , nationalizing the tin mines , and instituting an extensive program of land distribution ( agrarian reform ) . During this time , many of the old elitist parties that had previously dominated Bolivian politics either disappeared or faded into irrelevance . This left the MNR in the center of the Bolivian political spectrum . Siles and Paz , however , split in the 1960s over Paz 's ambitions and personal control of the party . Filled with strong personalities , the party had , in fact , begun to fragment along political and personal lines since the late 1950s , with Wlter Guevara being the first to leave and the popular Juan Lechn being expelled in 1964 . Siles went on to form the Revolutionary Nationalist Leftwing Movement ( MNRI ) and Lechn the Revolutionary Party of the Nationalist Left ( PRIN ) . The years @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ With the main body of the MNR firmly in Paz Estenssoro's 's control , the old leader made what can be seen as a major mistake in 1971 , when he supported the coming to power of dictator Hugo Banzer Surez . It was a move that was to cost his party dearly at the polls in subsequent years . While Paz seemed to be moving steadily to the right , Siles Zuazo went on to lead the UDP ( Union Democratica Popular ) , in alliance with the new and popular Movimiento de Izquierda Revolucionaria ( MIR ) . Indeed , Siles was the post-MNR politician who was best able to capitalize on the remaining legitimacy and respect that accrued to the MNR as a result of the 1952 Revolution . Paz Estenssoro led the MNR-proper in the 1978 , 1979 , and 1980 elections , finishing third , second , and second , respectively . He was finally elected president ( for the 4th time ) in 1985 , and served as Bolivia 's chief executive from 1985 until 1989 , when he retired from politics . By this @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and now advocated neoliberal economic policies . Under Paz , important economic reforms designed to curb hyperinflation were instituted , the labor unions were repressed , and 30,000 miners were fired from state payrolls as a result of the collapse of global tin prices . The painful readjustment policies adopted by the elderly Paz and his vigorous Minister of Planning , Gonzalo Sanchez de Lozada , came to be known as the New Economic Policy ( NEP ) , and restructured the bulk of the hitherto statist and now neoliberal Bolivian economy . Led by Sanchez de Lozada , the MNR won the 1993 elections , and Sanchez was confirmed as president by parliament . He continued the policies of the NEP . The party placed second in 1997 with Juan Carlos Durn ( the Bolivian constitution prohibits direct re-election of a sitting president ) , who lost the contest ( and the presidency ) to the former dictator Banzer . At the legislative elections of 30 June 2002 , the party , together with the Free Bolivia Movement , won 26.9% of the popular vote and 36 out of 130 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ 27 in the Senate . Following these elections , because no candidate could get a majority , the Congress chose the President , and they chose Snchez de Lozada . In 2003 however he was forcwed to resign , and his successor , Carlos Mesa , took over as an independent ( he was never a party member ) in hopes of promoting national unity in the face of nation-wide protests . Mesa later resigned and presidential elections were moved up to December 2005 . The MNR earned 6.5% of the popular vote and won 7 out of 130 seats in the Chamber of Deputies and 1 out of 27 seats in the Senate in the legislative elections . Its candidate in the presidential elections was Michiaki Nagatani , whose poor performance seems to signal a steep decline in the fortunes of the party . The Revolutionary Nationalist Movement is led by Guillermo Bedregal Gutirrez. 