birthplace=Cardiff , Wales deathplace=Boise , Idaho David William Davis ( April 23 , 1873 August 5 , 1959 ) was the 12th Governor of Idaho , serving from 1919 to 1923 . He later served briefly as Commissioner of the U. S. Bureau of Reclamation . From that , he became a Special Assistant to the Secretary of the Department of Interior . # Early Life and Career # Davis was born in Cardiff , Wales . His family immigrated to the United States in 1875 , and settled near Rippey , Iowa . Rippey , 3540 miles northwest of Des Moines , was then a major coal-mining region . This was before strict child labor laws , and Davis began working in the coal mines in 1885 when he was twelve years old . After a few years in the mines , Davis landed a job in the mining company store in Dawson , about five miles south of Rippey . Personable and hard-working , Davis showed a talent for the retail business . That led to a position as the manager of a local Farmer 's @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ at a bank in Rippey . At that time , the Cashier in a small bank could be more than what is known simply as a Teller in the United States . A Chief Cashier was a very high level position , able to among other duties issue cashier 's checks against the bank 's reserves . In view of his later career in banking , it seems likely that Davis attained that level of responsibility . It is known that , lacking much formal schooling , he also followed a program of diligent self-education . He reportedly spent a brief stint in the United States Navy , attaining the rank of Petty Officer , First Class after distinguished service in the Philippines . According to later accounts , Davis continued to suffer the ill effects of his time in the mines . Coupled with his intense efforts on and off the job , deteriorating health finally forced him to take a year or so off for a rest cure . # Idaho Banker and Governor # In 1903 , Davis 's first wife , the former Florence O. Gilliland , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , whose father owned a bank that merged with the one where Davis worked . The following year , the couple moved to American Falls , Idaho , which he had apparently observed during his rest cure . In 1907 , Davis helped organize the First National Bank of American Falls . Over the next several years , he aggressively promoted the town and its farm interests . At some point , Davis ' parents followed him to American Falls , where his father lived until his death in 1913 . Davis also became very active in the Republican Party ( United States ) in Idaho . In 1912 , he served as a delegate to the Republican National Convention . He also served as a member of the Idaho State Senate from 1913 to 1915 . Davis won the Republican nomination for governor in 1916 , but was narrowly defeated by the Democratic incumbent , Moses Alexander . Davis was nominated again in 1918 and defeated Democrat H. F. Samuels . Ex-governor James H. Hawley said that , for various reasons , A great many of the old time Democrats @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ won by a margin of 57,626 to 38,499 votes . He was reelected in 1920 . Although the election was a three-way race , Davis received 53 percent of the votes , out-polling his nearest rival by 75,748 to 38,509 . During his tenure , funding was sanctioned for the establishment of the bureau of budget and taxation , plus a veteran 's welfare program and a teacher 's pension system . A road-building program was initiated , the state 's statutes were reorganized , the state 's administrative agencies were unified , and three constitutional amendments were sanctioned . Davis left office on January 1 , 1923. # Other Interests and Later Career # Along with his political career , Davis stayed heavily involved with banking , even after he moved to Boise when he was first elected as Governor . That interest led to his election as president of the Idaho State Bankers Association in 1918 . Davis also took an active interest in irrigation projects , especially those promoted by the Carey Act along the Snake River . During his term as governor , Davis organized a meeting @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ states to discuss water issues . Out of that meeting grew the Western States Reclamation Association , to provide a united voice for advice to the U. S. government on federally funded irrigation projects . Two months after Davis left the governor 's office , he was appointed as a special assistant to the Secretary of the Interior , to supervise the United States Reclamation Service renamed the Bureau of Reclamation in 1923 and served until 1924 . He then served from 1924 to 1932 as director of finance for the Interior Department , and for a short time in 1931 as a special advisor to President Herbert Hoover . After his service with the Federal government , Davis returned to his Idaho banking interests and also expanded his investments in mining ventures in the Northwest . Governor David W. Davis died on August 5 , 1959 , and was buried at the Cloverdale Cemetery in Boise , Idaho . 