The Frame of Government of Pennsylvania was a constitution for the Province of Pennsylvania , a proprietary colony granted to William Penn by Charles II of England . The Frame of Government has lasting historical importance as an important step in the development of American and world democracy . # Background # William Penn as an English Quaker sought to construct a new type of society with religious toleration and a great deal of political freedom . It is believed that Penns political philosophy is embodied in the West New Jersey Concessions and Agreements of 1677 , which is an earlier practical experience of government constitution prior to the establishment of Pennsylvania . Although his authorship of the Concession is questioned , it is believed that he gave his full consent to it as the trustee of that colony . In the Concession , all legislative power was granted to an assembly selected by the inhabitants , freeholders and proprietors of the colony . A commission was to be appointed by the assembly as its executive . The government structure in West New Jersey demonstrated the enlightened constitutional @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ influence of republican political theory and humanism , the first version of the Frame of Government of Pennsylvania ( now known as the Frame of 1682 ) incorporated a few pioneering ideas , which were later developed into important elements of modern constitutionalism . It required capital punishment to be applied to a strictly limited scope of criminal offenses only , including murder and treason . Freedom of worship in the colony was to be absolute . The assembly could bring a request of impeachment of the governor before the council for its trial . Unconstitutional laws should be invalidated , although it did not specifically grant courts the power to declare the unconstitutionality . It included an amendment process where six-sevenths of the legislature and the governor had to approve any change . However , the government structure speculated by the Frame of 1682 was far less liberal than that in West New Jersey Concessions and Agreements of 1677. # The Frame of 1682 # The Frame of 1682 constituted a parliament consisting of two houses . The upper house , or the council , consisted of 72 members who @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ in the colony and had the exclusive power to propose legislation . They were also authorized to nominate all officers in church and state and supervise financial and military affairs through committees . The lower house , or the assembly , consisted of smaller landowners . It had no power to initiate legislation , but could accept or reject the councils legislative proposal only . The two-house parliament assists the governor with his executive functions . Commentators believe that the Frame of 1682 was significantly influenced by Penns supporters , primarily the earliest landholders in the colony . Little direct evidence suggested that they imposed a pressure upon the government constitution process . However , it is believed that the earliest settlors , who heavily invested in Pennsylvania , demanded a voice in constructing the framework of government . William Markham , a trusted deputy executive of Penn in the colony for many years , commented : ' ' I knew very well the Frame of Government was forced upon him by friends who unless they received all that they demanded would not settle the country . ' ' This partly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to accommodate the demands of the settlors . One of the most controversial provisions in the Frame of 1682 was if the governor should be allowed a veto to legislation presented by the parliament . To attract colonists , Penn had at first reserved himself only a single vote in the council and no power to reject legislation passed by the assembly . However , the Frame of 1682 , in its final form , granted the proprietor a greater power he was allowed a treble vote in the council and a veto in the legislative process . In December 1682 , an assembly of 42 men was convened to ratify the Frame of 1682 . Although leading Quakers secured their places in the assembly , their proposal to establish a proprietary government was adamantly opposed by the non-Quakers in the assembly , including representatives from the Lower Counties , which had been under the light control of the deputy governors appointed by Duke of York . In particular , they rejected the monopoly of the council in initiating legislation and requested a more powerful assembly . As a result , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Frame of 1683 # An assembly convened in 1683 to model a new frame of government in place of the rejected Frame of 1682 . The tension which resulted in the rejection of the Frame of 1682 remained although leading Quakers dominated the council , half of the seats in the assembly were occupied by non-Quakers from the Lower Counties who were steadfastly against the concentration of power to Quaker elites . The proprietors voting power in legislative process remained one of the major concerns in framing the government . As provided in the colonial charter granted by the King , laws were to be made by the proprietor . Thus , it would be a violation to the charter if the proprietor did not possess a veto power in legislation . Over lengthy debate , Penn managed to convince the assembly that the proprietors veto power was necessary , but guaranteed that he would exercise the power only with the councils advice and consent . Once again , the assembly sought to enlarge its role and insisted that it be granted to power to initiate legislation , as it demanded @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was regarded as unacceptable to both the proprietor and the council , they conceded that the assembly be allowed to confer with the council before passing a law . A compromised frame of government , or the Frame of 1683 , was eventually approved by the assembly . It provided that all laws should be passed by the Governor and the freemen in Council and Assembly met , and granted the governor a right to approve or veto . However , the proprietary governance speculated by the Frame of 1683 did not function effectively after Penn returned to England in 1684 . He relied on the council to act as governor collectively in the first few years during his absence . However , the council neglected Penns constitutional authority and promulgated laws without obtaining approval from Penn or the King . Penn subsequently appointed five commissioners to replace the council as his deputy executive . Having granted any three of the commissioners a power to enact , annul or vary laws as if I myself were there , he instructed the commissioners to annul the laws passed without his approval . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ In 1687 , Penn appointed John Blackwell to replace the five commissioners as a single executive . As an aggressive Puritan governor , Blackwell clashed with the Quakers assembly immediately after he was appointed . The disorder in Pennsylvania and William IIIs increasing distrust in Penn led to the suspension of Penns charter as the colonial proprietor in 1692. # The Frame of 1696 ( Markhams Frame ) # Penns charter was restored in 1694 . Presumably he intended his colonists to return to the Frame of 1683 , as one of the condition on which his charter was restored was that the colony should be under proprietary governance . William Markham , the lieutenant governor commissioned by Penn in 1694 , ruled the colony imperialistically and acted aggressively towards the assembly . However , certain practical needs in the colony significantly changed the political structure and dramatically resulted in liberal governance in this period , which was reflected in the Frame of 1696 ( also known as Markhams Frame ) . The assembly continued to make effort to further its power in 1690s . In March 1695 , David Lloyd @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ there was no special virtue in returning to the Frame of 1683 , and proposed a charter granting the Assembly a controlling role , including the sole power to initiate legislation . Interestingly , the council turned to support the shift of power from itself to the assembly in anticipation of a possible reestablishment of a royal government . The Quakers dominating the council understood that with Penns charter under heavy attack by neighboring governors and English government officials , the reestablishment of royal government was highly possible even probable . In that situation , the Quakers found it necessary to invest the assembly with the widest possible powers in advance of such a change . The council might be appointed by a royal governor and thus susceptible to a royal control . However , the assembly would always be elected . Outnumbering other factions , including the Anglicans , the Quakers believed that they would be able to dominate in the assembly . Thus , even if the Quakers lose their control over the council , they could still operate from the assembly to defend against a royal control . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the lieutenant governor and a member of the Church of England , took it as an opportunity to urge the Quaker-dominated assembly to cooperate in appropriating fund for military preparations , and promised that a discussion of constitutional revision would become possible if the military appropriation bill was passed by the assembly . Although having been committed to nonviolence and consciously objecting to participating in wars , Quakers compromised in this regard in exchanged for a more powerful assembly . Coupled with a bill raising a fund of 300 for military use , the assembly passed a new frame of government , which is known as the Frame of 1696 , or Markhams Frame . The new frame significantly changed the allocation of political power within the legislature by conferring upon the assembly the power to initiate legislation , sit on its own adjournment and judge the qualifications of its members . It also reduced the size of the legislature to a more manageable level - each country elected only two representatives to the council and four to the assembly . In addition , it provided for more stringent voting requirements @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ reside in the colony for two years before he could vote , suggesting an attempt to diminish the strength of the ever-growing number of non-Quaker immigrants newly arrived in the colony . In rural areas , where Quakers had a dominant representation in the population , the voting requirement was relaxed to include all freeholders with 50 acres rather than 100 acres as before . In urban areas where the number of non-Quakers was growing , the voting requirement was tightened to exclude anyone without a 50 estate free of debts . The validity of the Frame of 1696 was questionable , as Markham did not have a conceivable right to approve it . It was never approved by Penn either actually , Penn criticized it harshly . However , it functioned as the colonial constitution in practice for several years until Penn returned to Pennsylvania in 1699. # The Frame of 1701 ( The Charter of Privileges ) # After his 15 years absence , Penn returned to Pennsylvania in 1699 and found the assembly resisting his proprietary authority . His attempts to reinforce proprietary governance turned out to be @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ autonomy prevailed among the Quaker elite . In 1701 , on the eve that Penn left Pennsylvania to defend his colonial charter before the King in London , the assembly presented him with a new draft of the frame of government , which is subsequently known as the Frame of 1701 , or the Charter of Privileges . The Frame of 1701 further strengthened the controlling role of the assembly . An elective council was not even mentioned in the legislative process , and thus the assembly became the sole legislative authority . Meanwhile , the assembly obtained several Anglo-Saxon standard parliamentary privileges constitutionally for the first time : the right to prepare legislative bills , elect its own officers , appoint committees , sit on its own adjournment , judge the qualifications of its own members , and impeach officers of government . The assembly was to be elected annually by freemen and composed of four representatives from each county . The governor may appoint a council to assist with executive affairs , the council does not have a role in the legislative process . In addition , the Frame @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ directed to ordinary courts of justice , and thus neutralized the power of the Board of Propriety , the center of proprietary land administration . Another significant concession in the Frame of 1701 was that the Lower Counties , or Territories , are permitted to establish their home rules . In 1705 , the Territories took advantage of this provision and set up their own assembly . Although Penn steadfastly refused to approve the Frame of 1696 , he yielded to the Frame of 1701 , which was different from the Frame of 1699 only in details . Some writers regarded his concession as a sign of his losing control over the colony . He admitted that he approved the Frame of 1701 only because he saw a majority had been convinced by David Lloyd that it was a form of government nearer to English methods , which they called for so often . Also , in anticipation of the possibility that his rights of government in the colony might be stripped of by the English Parliament , a more democratic governmental structure might provide the Quakers in the colony with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ of 1701 remained the governing constitutional document in Pennsylvania in the following seventy-five years until the Revolution of 1776. # Characteristics # The establishment of Pennsylvania may be the most successful effort of Quakers in colonizing in America . Penns close relationship with the Crown significantly contributed to the success . His ruling over Pennsylvania was largely based on the royal charter , which curbed his political experiment and led to a hierarchical governmental structure . The compromise diluted the liberalism in the constitution of government , which Penn and his contemporary political thinks had been promoting . However , the human right provisions in the Frame of Government successfully reflected certain important values inherent in humanity thinking prevailing in the colony and Quakerism , and contributed to the development of constitutionalism in America . # Legacy and reception # The Frame of Government has been seen as a significant move towards democracy in America . The political philosophy expounded in the preface to the Frame of 1682 has often been cited and quoted . Voltaire applauded Penn 's efforts , saying he might with reason , boast of having brought @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ probability , never had any real existence but in his dominions . The fiftieth anniversary of the Frame of 1701 was celebrated with the making of the Liberty Bell . # References # 