Mahikeng formerly , and still commonly , known as Mafikeng and historically Mafeking in English ( see name history below ) is the capital city of the North-West Province of South Africa . It is best known internationally for the Siege of Mafeking , the most famous engagement of the Second Boer War . Located close to South Africa 's border with Botswana , Mahikeng is 1400km mi northeast of Cape Town and 260km mi west of Johannesburg . In 2001 , it had a population of 49,300 . In 2007 , Mafikeng was reported to have a population of 250,000 of which the CBD constitutes between 69,000 and 75,000 . It is built on the open veld at an elevation of 1500mft 0 , by the banks of the Upper Molopo River . The Madibi goldfields are some 15km mi south of the town . # History # Mahikeng is the headquarters of the people . The town was founded by Molema Tawana ( c. 1822-January 1882 ) . Born in Khunwana during the ' ' difaqane ' ' period , Molema was the son of Kgosi @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ close confidant , Montshiwa , later became chief . During the period that the Tshidi Barolong resided at Thaba Nchu , where they found refuge during the difaqane , Molema was converted to Christianity by the Wesleyan missionaries based there . Molema 's son and heir , Silas Molema , was educated at Healdtown College . ( Silas helped his nephew Sebopioa Molema get to the United States about 1904 to study law at Wilberforce University in Wilberforce , Ohio . ) In 1857 Molema led an advance guard to scout out the area along the Molopo River . This was a familiar area as they had previously lived in nearby Khunwana . Molema settled at Mafikeng ( known in its early years as Molemas town ) , while the main body of the Barolong under Montshiwa followed . But Montshiwa did not feel safe at Mafikeng due to the close presence and encroachment of the Boers in the Transvaal . He led his followers to Moshaneng in the territory of the Bangwaketse in present-day Botswana . Molema remained at Mafikeng to ensure that the Barolong retained a presence there . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ sites in the proximity of the Molopo . Molema had to use all his diplomatic skills on several occasions to prevent Boer incursion and settlement near Mafikeng . He has been described as a man of strong personality and exceptional gifts ... and Montshiwa 's chief counsellor in vital matters . ( S.M Molema:35 ) After negotiations with Molema , Montshiwa decided to return to Mafikeng in 1876 . Molema was a firm believer in Western education , having attended Healdtown ; he opened a school for the Barolong once they had settled in the district . Molema became a farmer and businessman , as well as advising his brother Montshiwa . He died in 1882 . One of his sons , Silas Molema , became a Doctor and historian of the Barolong. ( see S.M. Molema ) . The settlement was named Mafikeng , a ' ' Setswana ' ' name meaning place of stones . Later British settlers spelled the name as Mafeking . The Jameson Raid started from Pitsani Pothlugo ( or Potlogo ) 24 mi north of Mafeking on December 29 , 1895 . At the outbreak @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ was besieged . The Siege of Mafeking lasted 217 days from October 1899 to May 1900 , and turned Robert Baden-Powell into a national hero . In September 1904 , Lord Roberts unveiled an obelisk at Mafeking bearing the names of those who fell in defence of the town . In all , 212 people were killed during the siege , with more than 600 wounded . Boer losses were significantly higher . Although it was outside the protectorate 's borders , Mafeking served as capital of the Bechuanaland Protectorate from 1894 until 1965 , when Gaborone was made the capital of what was to become Botswana . Mafeking also briefly served as capital of the pre-independence Bantustan of Bophuthatswana in the 1970s , before the adjoining town of Mmabatho was established as capital . Following a local referendum on the issue , Mafeking joined Bophuthatswana in 1980 , three years after Bophuthatswana was awarded independence , and was renamed ' ' Mafikeng ' ' , and treated as a suburb of Mmabatho . Following the end of apartheid in 1994 , the merged Mafikeng and Mmabatho was instated as capital @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Major Facilities # North-West University Mafikeng Train Station Mmabatho Stadium Mafikeng Airport Mafikeng Game Reserve(4800Ha) Botsalano Game Reserve(5800Ha) Molemane Eye Nature Reserve # Name # The town 's name was first spelt by British settlers as Mafeking , but the name reverted to Mafikeng in 1980 following its incorporation into Bophuthatswana . In February 2010 , Lulu Xingwana , the then Minister of Arts and Culture , approved the town 's name to be changed again to Mahikeng . Despite this the town 's ANC-run local government and most local residents still refer to the town as Mafikeng both informally and formally . # Notable people from Mahikeng # Dr Silas Molema : Medical Doctor , businessman and historian of the Barolong . Judge Yvonne Mokgoro : Former Justice at Constitutional Court of South Africa . Credo Mutwa : Lived for numerous years and created arts village of Lotlamoreng , located on the outskirts of Mafikeng. # Climate 