Spain is a diverse country integrated by different contrasting regions that show varying economic and social structures , as well as different languages and historical , political and cultural traditions . According to the Spanish current constitution , the Spanish nation is the common and indivisible homeland of all Spaniards , which is integrated by nationalities and regions to which the constitution recognizes and guarantees the right to self-government . The terms nationalities or historical nationalities ( Spanish and Galician : ' ' nacionalidades histricas ' ' , , Catalan or ) , though never defined officially , are ' ' territories ' ' whose inhabitants have a strong historically constituted sense of identity , or more specifically , certain autonomous communities whose Statutes of autonomytheir basic institutional legislationrecognizes their historical and cultural identity . In Spanish jurisprudence , the term nationality appears for the first time in the current constitution , approved in 1978 , and after much debate in the Spanish Parliament . Although it was explicitly understood that the term made reference to Galicia , the Basque Country and Catalonia , the constitution does not @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a consensus between the strong centralist position inherited from Franco 's regime and the nationalist position mainly from the Basques , Galicians and Catalans . Once all nationalities and regions acceded to self-government or autonomy and were constituted as autonomous communities , the term was applied , in their respective Statutes of Autonomy , not only to define the three above-mentioned communities , but also Andalusia , the Balearic Islands and the Valencian Community , and more recently Aragon and the Canary Islands . The rest of the autonomous communities ( Asturias , Castile and Len , Castile-La Mancha , Murcia , La Rioja , Cantabria , Extremadura ) are simply defined as regions of Spain , oftentimes as historical regions or as having a historical regional identity in their respective Statutes of Autonomy . Navarre and the Community of Madrid are special cases . Navarre is defined as a chartered community , in the reinstitution of its medieval charters , and the Community of Madrid is defined neither as a nationality nor as a region , but as a community created in the nation 's interest as the seat of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ The formation of Spain can be viewed as an alliance and progressive union of several peninsular kingdoms , and it can be said that the nationalist or regionalist tradition in Spain has its roots in Spanish history . In fact , no serious attempt was made to centralize the administration until the reforms of the eighteenth century . By the beginning of the nineteenth century , though , the Spanish government was heavily centralized and the State did not recognize the nation 's regional diversity . It was also , later during this same century , that as Catalonia and the Basque Country became rapidly industrialized and areas where commercial capitalism made swift progress while the rest of the country followed at a much slower pace , nationalistic sentiments began to grow , and it was not unusual that some writers of the time would express their concepts of a Catalan or Basque fatherland or even nationhood . Both nationalist movements had much in common , in that both arose in areas that enjoyed higher levels of prosperity , were the only areas in the country to develop modern industry , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ both the Catalan and the Basque languages began to experience a strong revival , as was the case with the Galician language . Both regions rediscovered their historiesCatalonia rediscovered her prowess as a Mediterranean Medieval empire within the Crown of Aragon , and the Basque Country focused on the mystery of its origins . Both areas had enjoyed some type of medieval charters whereby they had exercised either full autonomy , but not sovereignty , within the Spanish crown , or , in later times , as it was the case solely for the Basque Country and Navarre , they had enjoyed fiscal autonomy . The larger economic development occurring in areas overlapping spatially delimited ethnic communities enhanced the regions ' own identity . As nationalistic sentiments grew , sometimes within conservative ideals and afterwards with the left , their demands for self-government also grew , and in some sectors , separatism outright independence was preferred . The appearance of the so-called peripheral nationalism in the aforementioned regions of Spain occurred in a time where Spain itself as a whole first began to look into its own concept of nationhood , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ two competing views , the traditionalist , where religion played a significant role in defining the Spanish nation , intrinsically and traditionally Catholic , and strongly monarchical , and the liberal view where sovereignty resided in the nation the people , as opposed to the monarch and where some advocated for a uniform centralized State while others preferred decentralization and even republicanism . Spain experimented with decentralization during the First Spanish Republic ( 1873-1874 ) , but social and political chaos which had started even before the change of regime with a change of monarchical houses led to its failure . At the beginning of the twentieth century , the two political discourses of Spanish nationalism , the traditional and the liberal , continued to be present and opposing , advocating for different political regimes . However , the appearance of peripheral nationalisms , namely the Basque and Catalan nationalistic movements , produced the unification many Spanish nationalists as a counter-force , and Spanish nationalism became a dialectical struggle between the center and the periphery . During the final stages of the ' ' turno pacfico ' ' , a staged @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Spanish Parliament , Catalonia was granted a limited form of self-government , and the Commonwealth of Catalonia ( ) was established in 1913 , with its own Regional Assembly . The Assembly drafted a Statute of Autonomy that was , however , rejected by the General Courts ( the Spanish Parliament ) . The Commonwealth of Catalonia was dissolved during the dictatorship of Primo de Rivera in 1923 . In 1931 , the Second Spanish Republic was established , and a new liberal constitution allowed the regions of Spain to attain self-government , and created the autonomous region as a first-order administrative division . Catalonia was the first to approve a Statute of Autonomy , later sanctioned by the Spanish Parliament , and the Generalitat , the Catalan institutions of government that operated since medieval times until the early eighteenth century , was restored . The Basque Country and Galicia followed suit in 1936 , but only the Statute of Autonomy of the first was approved before the Spanish Civil War erupted . After the war , centralism was most forcefully enforced during Franco 's regime ( 1939-1975 ) as a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ His attempts to fight separatism with heavy-handed but sporadic repression and his oftentimes severe suppression of language and regional identities backfired : the demands for democracy became intertwined with demands for the recognition of a pluralistic vision of the Spanish nationhood . When Franco died , Spain entered into a phase of transition towards democracy , and all democratic groups were forced to face the Catalan , Basque and Galician question . On 11 September 1977 , more than one million people marched in the streets of Barcelona ( Catalonia ) demanding ' ' llibertat , amnistia i estatut d'autonomia ' ' , liberty , amnesty and a Statute of Autonomy , the biggest demonstration in post-war Europe . A decree-law was passed that allowed for the creation of ' ' pre-autonomas ' ' , pre-autonomies or provisional regional governments for all regions , the historical nationalities included . Catalonia was the first to be so constituted , reviving again the Generalitat . The Basque Country quickly followed suit . In the 1977 election to the first democratically elected Parliament since the times of the Republic , regional Catalan socialists ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Basque Nationalist Party ) both won significant positions in representing their regions and their aspirations . This newly elected Parliament was entrusted to formulate a new constitution . # Nationalities in the constitution of 1978 # The demands for the recognition of the distinctiveness of Catalonia , the Basque Country and Galicia , within the Spanish State became one of the most important challenges for the newly elected Parliament . In fact , the writing of the second article , in which the nationalities and regions of Spain were recognized , was the most hotly debated in the Parliament . Its acceptance was not smooth : the right vigorously opposed it , while the nationalists and the left firmly objected leaving it out . The natural corollary to debating the term nationalities was debating the term nation . At the end of the spectrum there were those who thought the term nationalities was unnecessary , or that there was only one nation and nationality Spain while at the opposite end of the spectrum there were those who advocated for defining Spain as a plurinational State , that is , a State @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ second article was passed along with the term nationalities but firmly stressing the indivisible unity of the Spanish nation . It reads : The article united two historical trends in Spain : centralism and federalism , and in the words of one of the seven fathers of the Constitution , Jordi Sol Tura it was ' ' ... an authentic point of encounter between different concepts of the Spanish nation ... In it , two great notions of Spain merge . ' ' It aimed to give an answer to the nationalistic aspirations that had been silenced during the four decades of Franco 's dictatorial regime . The constitution itself did not define the term , despite the diverse meanings and interpretations that its proponents and opponents had ranging from an expression of historical and cultural identities ... in the superior unity of Spain ( Landelino Lavilla , from the Union of the Democratic Centre ) , communities with a prominent cultural , historical or political personality ( Rafael Arias-Salgado , from the Union of the Democratic Centre ) , all the way to making it equivalent to nation , ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ opposition to the term ' ' nationalities ' ' precisely because of its alleged synonymity with ' ' nation ' ' ) or defining it as a nation without a State ... within the plurinational reality of Spain ... as a Nation of nations ( Miguel Roca Junyent , from the Unified Socialist Party of Catalonia ) . The particular meaning that the term nationalities was to acquire in Spanish politics in reference to regions created some confusion with the concept of nationality in reference to citizenship , especially when the latter was defined in the 11th article of the constitution . It was suggested that the term nationality be changed to citizenship in the 11th article , but it was considered that the terms nationality and citizenship are not completely synonymous , as it is common in other European legislations . The Preamble to the constitution explicitly stated that it is the Nation 's will to protect all Spaniards and the peoples of Spain in the exercise of human rights , their cultures and traditions , languages and institutions . This was a significant move , since for the historical @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ languages . Furthermore , the nation became openly multilingual , declaring Castilian that is , Spanish the official language of the entire country , but declaring that the other Spanish languages will also be official in their respective autonomous communities . The third article ends up declaring that the richness of the distinct linguistic modalities of Spain represent a patrimony which will the object of special respect and protection . # The State of Autonomies # The constitution aimed to devolve self-government to both nationalities and regions , if the latter so desired , which were to be constituted as autonomous communities , yet making an implicit distinction between the two groups in the level of competences that were to be devolved , and in the way they were to attain self-government the three historical nationalities ( Catalonia , Galicia and the Basque Country ) were granted a simplified fast-track process , while the rest of the regions had to follow a specific set of requirements . Thus the process was purposely intended to be asymmetrical in nature . The autonomous communities were to be formed from the existing provinces , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ century : an autonomous community could be created by a province or group of provinces with common historical , cultural and economical features . Yet , the outcome was not predictable ; the constitution created a process for devolution , but it differed from other legislations in two main aspects . First , it did not specify the name or number of the autonomous communities that would integrate the Spanish nation , and secondly , the process was voluntary in nature : the regions themselves had the option of choosing to attain self-government or not . This unique process of territorial administration was called the State of Autonomies . Though highly decentralized , this system is not a federation , in that there was still ambiguity with regards to the power attributed to the regions , even though they can still negotiate them with the central government . While the constitution was still being drafted , there was a demonstration in Andalusia , which sought to be recognized as a nationality as well , and to be granted self-government also through a rapid process . This opened a phase that was @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ' , coffee for all , which meant that all regions would be served the same that is , that all nationalities and regions would accede to self-government in roughly the same degree , even if at different paces . Catalonia , the Basque Country and Galicia acceded to autonomy via the fast-track route established in the 151st article of the constitution , with all competences granted , because in the past they had approved a Statute by referendum and they had already established a pre-autonomic provisional government . Andalusia was able to take this route after a referendum in 1980 . The rest , had the opportunity to accede to autonomy via the slower route established by the 143rd article , with a lower level of competences during a provisional period of five years , after which there was to be a progressive transference of competences , that would roughly equalize all communities . One particular exception was granted to both the Basque Country and Navarre in that their ' ' fueros ' ' or medieval charters that had granted them fiscal autonomy were restored . While Navarre , a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ part of the soon-to-be formed autonomous community of the Basque Country , it followed a different route of devolution , precisely because of the reinstitution of the medieval charters , and it is nominally known as a chartered community , as opposed to an autonomous community . ( Both the Basque Country and Navarre are considered communities of chartered regime , that is , with fiscal autonomy . They collect their own taxes and send a prearranged amount to the central government . The rest of the communities are considered to be of a common regime ; currently they administer taxes only partially . The taxes collected from common regime communities are administered centrally and distributed amongst them all for fiscal equalization ) . # Current state of affairs # The autonomic process , that is , the process whereby the nationalities and regions would accede to autonomy was partially concluded in 1983 when 17 autonomous communities covering the entire Spanish territory were created . ( It was finally completed with the creation of two autonomous cities in Northern Africa , Ceuta and Melilla ) . All autonomous communities follow the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , that is , no province has been partitioned between communities . Moreover , many communities roughly coincide with the pre-provincial historical ' ' regions ' ' of the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries , which in turn reflected to some extent some of the historical medieval kingdoms or administrative regions of the past . On the other hand , some autonomous communities are new creations . For example , autonomy was granted to Cantabria and La Rioja , both of which were historically part of Castile . Despite the lack of historical base for both communities , and the fact that the Spanish government favored their integration in the larger Castile-Len , the local population overwhelmingly supported the new entities . In Cantabria , one of the leading intellectual figures in 19th-century Spain , Marcelino Menndez Pelayo , had already rejected a ' ' Castilian ' ' identity for his region as far back as 1877 , while he favored integration with its western neighbor , Asturias : ' ' Y quin sabe si antes de mucho , enlazadas hasta oficialmente ambas provincias , rota la ilgica divisin que a los @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ni nadie nos llame castellanos , podr la extensa y riqusima zona cntabro-asturiana formar una entidad tan una y enrgica como la de Catalua , luz y espejo hoy de todas las gentes ibricas ! ' ' The province of Madrid was also separated from New Castile and constituted as an autonomous community . This was partly in recognition of Madrid 's status as the capital of the nation , but also because it was originally excluded from the pre-autonomic agreements that created the community of Castile-La Mancha , to which it naturally belonged . Some peripheral nationalists still complain that the creation of many regions was an attempt to break down their own national unity by a sort of gerrymandering thus softening the impact of the distinctiveness of their own nationalities . As competences were eventually transferred to all communities in roughly the same degree , some nationalists view that there is a vanishing practical distinction between nationality and region , regardless of how the autonomous community defines itself , a dilution that is welcomed by some political parties at the national level . In fact , other communities have @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ ( such as Andalusia , Aragon , the Balearic Islands , the Canary Islands and the Valencian Community ) . Also , most communities that do not enjoy fiscal autonomy the common regime communities typically tend to follow Catalonia 's lead in their demands for more competences or self-government . This has caused a movement for a further recognition of the distinctiveness of the historical nationalities as nations resuscitating oftentimes the debate between nationality and nation or the concept of a plurinational State . In the Basque Country in 2003 , the regional government proposed a plan whereby the autonomous community would become a free associated State of Spain , which was later rejected by the Spanish Parliament . In 2006 , the Catalan Parliament , in approving a new Statute of Autonomy , chose to define Catalonia , not as a nationality but explicitly as a nation , by a large majority . Similar proposals were made in Andalusia . The Spanish Parliament , which has to eventually ratify all Statutes of Autonomy , removed the article that defined Catalonia as a nation , but made a reference in the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Parliament had chosen to so define Catalonia , but that the constitution recognizes her national reality as a nationality . Finally , the distinction of two chartered communities with fiscal autonomy has led to discontent in Catalonia , which demands the same privilege and transparency , being one of the main net contributors of fiscal equalization to which only communities of common-regime are subject to that is , it has a large fiscal deficit whereas in Galicia and Andalusia , which are among the biggest net beneficiaries of such centrally managed funding , no such demand has been made . The nationalities have also played a key role in national State-wide politics . In the few occasions where no major party has achieved absolute majority in the Congress of Deputies , there have been agreements with the so-called nationalist ( i.e. regionalist or peripheral nationalist ) parties therein present . ( It should be noted that in these occasions , no coalitions for government have been made , but rather a minority government is formed that receives support from the nationalist parties to approve the budget and other laws ) . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the peripheral nationalities . The new framework of autonomies has served in legitimizing the Spanish state even within the nationalities , more so in Catalonia and Galicia than in the Basque Country . ( Legitimacy is still a question amongst some Basque nationalists ; the Basque Country was the only community where the Spanish Constitution in 1978 was not approved by the majority of its constituents in the national referendum ) . In practical terms , the majority of the population has been satisfied with the framework of devolution since the restoration of democracy , even if there are still aspirations for further recognition of the distinctiveness of the nationalities or for the expansion of their self-government . In all three historical nationalities , there is still a sizable minority , more so in Catalonia than in the Basque Country and Galicia , expressing its voice in one way or another , that proposes for the establishment of a true federal State in Spain or advocate for their right to self-determination and independence . The economic crisis in Spain that started in 2008 , has produced different reactions in the different @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ that are not nationalities , mostly governed by the centre-right Popular Party , are considering a return of some devolved powers back to the central government . On the other hand , in Catalonia , the strenuous fiscal situation and the severe austerity measures enacted by the regional government have caused a large discomfort in the population , many of which view the unfairness of the large fiscal deficit as aggravating the situation . This , in turn , has led many who are not necessarily separatist but who are enraged by the financial deficit to support secession . In recent polls , support for independence has doubled from the mid-20% since the recession started to around 50% by September 2012 , even though support for independence drops to the mid-30% if more options are given , with an almost equal percentage opting for the establishment of a true federal system in Spain . This surge in support for independence was evidenced during the celebration of the National Day of Catalonia on September 11 , 2012 , when about 600,000 - 2 million people marched on the streets of Barcelona rallying @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ history . Following the rally , the president of Catalonia , Artur Mas , in a previously scheduled meeting with the prime minister of Spain , Mariano Rajoy , requested and was denied on the basis of its purported unconstitutionality , a change in the taxation system in Catalonia that would have made it similar to that of the two communities of chartered regime . The week after the meeting , Mas called for the dissolution of the Catalan Parliament and for early elections to be held on November 25 , 2012 . Before its dissolution , the Catalan parliament approved a bill calling for the next legislature to let Catalonia exercise its right of self-determination by holding a referendum or consultation during the next four years in which the people would decide on becoming a new independent and sovereign State . The parliamentary decision was approved by a large majority of deputies : 84 voted affirmative , 21 voted negative and 25 abstained . The deputy prime minister of Spain , Soraya Senz de Santamara , declared that the central government would exercise all legal instruments current legislation requires the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ or sanction a binding referendum to block any such attempt . The leaders of the opposition , both in the Catalan Parliament , as well as in the Cortes Generales , and both from the Socialist Party , do not support Catalan secession , but rather propose a change in the constitution that would create a true federal system in Spain , to better reflect the singularities of Catalonia and to modify the current taxation system . In December 2012 , an opposing rally was organized by the Partido Popular and Ciutadans that drew 30,000-160,000 people in one of Barcelonas main squares under a large flag of Spain and Catalunia . This opposing manifestations showed the opposing view to an independent Catalunia and the tensions the region faces . 