birthplace = Beauvais , Oise , France deathplace = Paris Henri Lon Lebesgue ForMemRS ( ; June 28 , 1875 July 26 , 1941 ) was a French mathematician most famous for his theory of integration , which was a generalization of the 17th century concept of integrationsumming the area between an axis and the curve of a function defined for that axis . His theory was published originally in his dissertation ' ' Intgrale , longueur , aire ' ' ( Integral , length , area ) at the University of Nancy during 1902. # Personal life # Henri Lebesgue was born on 28 June 1875 in Beauvais , Oise . Lebesgue 's father was a typesetter and his mother was a school teacher . His parents assembled at home a library that the young Henri was able to use . Unfortunately his father died of tuberculosis when Lebesgue was still very young and his mother had to support him by herself . As he showed a remarkable talent for mathematics in primary school , one of his instructors arranged for community support to continue his education @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ and Lyce Louis-le-Grand in Paris . In 1894 Lebesgue was accepted at the cole Normale Suprieure , where he continued to focus his energy on the study of mathematics , graduating in 1897 . After graduation he remained at the cole Normale Suprieure for two years , working in the library , where he became aware of the research on discontinuity done at that time by Ren-Louis Baire , a recent graduate of the school . At the same time he started his graduate studies at the Sorbonne , where he learned about mile Borel 's work on the incipient measure theory and Camille Jordan 's work on the Jordan measure . In 1899 he moved to a teaching position at the Lyce Central in Nancy , while continuing work on his doctorate . In 1902 he earned his Ph.D . from the Sorbonne with the seminal thesis on Integral , Length , Area , submitted with Borel , four years older , as advisor . Lebesgue married the sister of one of his fellow students , and he and his wife had two children , Suzanne and Jacques . After @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ position at the University of Rennes , lecturing there until 1906 , when he moved to the Faculty of Sciences of the University of Poitiers . In 1910 Lebesgue moved to the Sorbonne as a matre de confrences , being promoted to professor starting with 1919 . In 1921 he left the Sorbonne to become professor of mathematics at the Collge de France , where he lectured and did research for the rest of his life . In 1922 he was elected a member of the Acadmie franaise . Henri Lebesgue died on 26 July 1941 in Paris . # Mathematical career # Lebesgue 's first paper was published in 1898 and was titled Sur l'approximation des fonctions . It dealt with Weierstrass ' theorem on approximation to continuous functions by polynomials . Between March 1899 and April 1901 Lebesgue published six notes in ' ' Comptes Rendus . ' ' The first of these , unrelated to his development of Lebesgue integration , dealt with the extension of Baire 's theorem to functions of two variables . The next five dealt with surfaces applicable to a plane , the area @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ a given bound , and the final note gave the definition of Lebesgue integration for some function f(x) . Lebesgue 's great thesis , ' ' Intgrale , longueur , aire ' ' , with the full account of this work , appeared in the Annali di Matematica in 1902 . The first chapter develops the theory of measure ( see Borel measure ) . In the second chapter he defines the integral both geometrically and analytically . The next chapters expand the ' ' Comptes Rendus ' ' notes dealing with length , area and applicable surfaces . The final chapter deals mainly with Plateau 's problem . This dissertation is considered to be one of the finest ever written by a mathematician . His lectures from 1902 to 1903 were collected into a Borel tract ' ' Leons sur l'intgration et la recherche des fonctions primitives ' ' . The problem of integration regarded as the search for a primitive function is the keynote of the book . Lebesgue presents the problem of integration in its historical context , addressing Augustin-Louis Cauchy , Peter Gustav Lejeune Dirichlet , and @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ desirable that the integral should satisfy , the last of which is If the sequence f  n  ( x ) increases to the limit f(x) , the integral of f  n  ( x ) tends to the integral of f(x) . Lebesgue shows that his conditions lead to the theory of measure and measurable functions and the analytical and geometrical definitions of the integral . He turned next to trigonometric functions with his 1903 paper Sur les sries trigonomtriques . He presented three major theorems in this work : that a trigonometrical series representing a bounded function is a Fourier series , that the n  th  Fourier coefficient tends to zero ( the RiemannLebesgue lemma ) , and that a Fourier series is integrable term by term . In 1904-1905 Lebesgue lectured once again at the Collge de France , this time on trigonometrical series and he went on to publish his lectures in another of the Borel tracts . In this tract he once again treats the subject in its historical context . He expounds on Fourier series , Cantor-Riemann theory , the Poisson @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , Reprsentation trigonomtrique approche des fonctions satisfaisant a une condition de Lipschitz deals with the Fourier series of functions satisfying a Lipschitz condition , with an evaluation of the order of magnitude of the remainder term . He also proves that the RiemannLebesgue lemma is a best possible result for continuous functions , and gives some treatment to Lebesgue constants . Lebesgue once wrote , Rduites des thories gnrales , les mathmatiques seraient une belle forme sans contenu . ( Reduced to general theories , mathematics would be a beautiful form without content . ) In measure-theoretic analysis and related branches of mathematics , the LebesgueStieltjes integral generalizes RiemannStieltjes and Lebesgue integration , preserving the many advantages of the latter in a more general measure-theoretic framework . During the course of his career , Lebesgue also made forays into the realms of complex analysis and topology . He also had a disagreement with Borel ( called ' ' teilweise heftig ' ' ) with regards to effective calculation . However , these minor forays pale in comparison to his contributions to real analysis ; his contributions to this field had a @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ his methods have become an essential part of modern analysis . Additionally , he is claimed to be the last of the mathematicians to consider one to be a prime number . # Lebesgue 's theory of integration # This is a non-technical treatment from a historical point of view ; see the article ' ' Lebesgue integration ' ' for a technical treatment from a mathematical point of view . Integration is a mathematical operation that corresponds to the informal idea of finding the area under the graph of a function . The first theory of integration was developed by Archimedes in the 3rd century BC with his method of quadratures , but this could be applied only in limited circumstances with a high degree of geometric symmetry . In the 17th century , Isaac Newton and Gottfried Wilhelm Leibniz discovered the idea that integration was intrinsically linked to differentiation , the latter being a way of measuring how quickly a function changed at any given point on the graph . This surprising relationship between two major geometric operations in calculus , differentiation and integration , is now known as @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to calculate a broad class of integrals for the first time . However , unlike Archimedes ' method , which was based on Euclidean geometry , mathematicians felt that Newton 's and Leibniz 's integral calculus did not have a rigorous foundation . In the 19th century , Augustin Cauchy developed epsilon-delta limits , and Bernhard Riemann followed up on this by formalizing what is now called the Riemann integral . To define this integral , one fills the area under the graph with smaller and smaller rectangles and takes the limit of the sums of the areas of the rectangles at each stage . For some functions , however , the total area of these rectangles does not approach a single number . As such , they have no Riemann integral . Lebesgue invented a new method of integration to solve this problem . Instead of using the areas of rectangles , which put the focus on the domain of the function , Lebesgue looked at the codomain of the function for his fundamental unit of area . Lebesgue 's idea was to first define measure , for both sets @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ build the integral for what he called simple functions ; measurable functions that take only finitely many values . Then he defined it for more complicated functions as the least upper bound of all the integrals of simple functions smaller than the function in question . Lebesgue integration has the property that every function defined over a bounded interval with a Riemann integral also has a Lebesgue integral , and for those functions the two integrals agree . Furthermore , every bounded function on a closed bounded interval has a Lebesgue integral and there are many functions with a Lebesgue integral that have no Riemann integral . As part of the development of Lebesgue integration , Lebesgue invented the concept of measure , which extends the idea of length from intervals to a very large class of sets , called measurable sets ( so , more precisely , simple functions are functions that take a finite number of values , and each value is taken on a measurable set ) . Lebesgue 's technique for turning a measure into an integral generalises easily to many other situations , leading to the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ deficient in one respect . The Riemann integral generalises to the improper Riemann integral to measure functions whose domain of definition is not a closed interval . The Lebesgue integral integrates many of these functions ( always reproducing the same answer when it did ) , but not all of them . For functions on the real line , the Henstock integral is an even more general notion of integral ( based on Riemann 's theory rather than Lebesgue 's ) that subsumes both Lebesgue integration and improper Riemann integration . However , the Henstock integral depends on specific ordering features of the real line and so does not generalise to allow integration in more general spaces ( say , manifolds ) , while the Lebesgue integral extends to such spaces quite naturally . 