Maurice William Prather ( September 6 , 1926 - January 9 , 2001 ) was an American motion picture and still photographer and film director . He was born in Miami , Florida , the son of Maurice J. Prather , a mechanic , cabinet maker , and woodworker , and Zora M. Prather , both of them born in Missouri . Young Maurice Jr . also had a younger sister , Laura Jo , some two years his junior . The Prather family was living in Kansas City , Missouri , by 1930 , where Maurice Jr . ' s father found work at a local business called Greenwood 's . By the time he was in his senior year of high school , Maurice Jr . had become interested in photography and had an after-school job as an assistant cameraman and laboratory technician at the Calvin Company in Kansas City , the largest production company for industrial films in the world . Upon turning 18 in 1944 , Prather did not join the armed forces as most American young people were during those wartime days ( @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ him from serving in the armed forces ) . Instead , he found work as a photographer of wartime airplanes for North American Aviation in Kansas City . In 1945 , he became an engineering photographer for Trans World Airlines ( TWA ) , who for many years had a hub in Kansas City . Still living with his parents in Kansas City , Prather then returned to the Calvin Company as an assistant cameraman for industrial films once again . This was the longest Prather held onto a job during these early days in Kansas City---two years ( 1946-1948 ) . For some reason , he decided to abandon photography altogether for a one-year stint as a schedule clerk at a Sears-Roebuck department store in Kansas City . In 1949 , he decided to get a college education and so enrolled in the journalism program at the University of Kansas in Lawrence , Kansas . While at KU , Prather got a part-time job at the local Centron Corporation film studio , working as a photographer once again on educational and industrial short films . Prather 's college activities included @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ newspaper at KU and writing and photographing with several other students a highlight book of the 1951-52 season of the KU Jayhawks basketball team . Prather completed his journalism degree in June , 1953 , and immediately went to work full-time at Centron . Prather put in nearly ten years at Centron , making over one hundred educational and industrial films , many of them prize-winners . Other than motion picture and still photography , he did sound recording on films and after a while began to direct films . It was while at Centron that Prather met his wife , Rozanne , whom he married in the late 1950s . He also first became acquainted with director Herk Harvey . In 1959 , Centron 's camera shop , Mosser-Wolf Cameras , was sold to Prather and several business partners who opened Photon Cameras , a successful camera retail store and portrait studio that Prather served as an owner-operator of until his leaving Lawrence in 1962 . In 1961 , Prather photographed Carnival of Souls , Herk Harvey 's Lawrence-produced feature film whose groundbreaking cinematography influenced the horror and science fiction @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ its audience until 1989 . By the time Carnival of Souls was released in late 1962 , Prather had left Lawrence with his wife to work as services coordinator and photographer for Horizon Productions , a small , Kansas City-based nontheatrical film production studio . In 1967 , Prather moved over to Coleman Film Enterprises , another educational film company , which was headquartered in Shawnee Mission , Kansas . Prather worked there as a photographer until 1977 , when he and his wife ( who had by this time had two daughters , Anne and Stefanie ) , moved to California where Prather attempted to give a Hollywood filmmaking career a try . He had little success . My wife and I had lived in California and really did n't feel like moving back there , Prather said in a 2000 interview in Kansas City after the revival of interest in Carnival of Souls . I did a lot of movie work and all of the still work for Centron . I prefer to do still photography . I came here to Kansas City in 1983 and I got out @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ . A lot of the stuff I did was food photography . I love food photography . I also did portraits to please myself , not to please the person I was photographing . You get a little old lady saying , ' Make me look like I 'm 20 years old . ' The revival of interest in his old feature film Carnival of Souls during the 1990s was a pleasant surprise for Prather , but for some reason he did not attend the 1989 reunion of the film 's cast and crew in Lawrence , even though he was already listed in the advertisements and programs for the event as one of the featured speakers during the ceremonies . Prather died at the age of 74 on January 9 , 2001 , at his home in Kansas City , of an unspecified cause , most likely renal failure . However , Prather will remain well-known and widely praised for his innovative and creative photography in Carnival of Souls , as the film continues to be viewed in homes and theaters and aired on television , amazingly , after nearly @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the 1960s were long forgotten after less than only two or three years . 