In many countries , Teachers ' Days ( or Teachers Day ) are intended to be special days for the appreciation of teachers , and may include celebrations to honour them for their special contributions in a particular field area , or the community in general . The date on which Teachers ' day is celebrated varies from country to country . Teachers ' days are distinct from World Teachers ' Day which is officially celebrated across the world on October 5. # History # The idea of celebrating Teachers ' Day took ground independently in many countries during the 20th century ; in most cases , they celebrate a local educator or an important milestone in education ( for example , Argentina commemorates Domingo Faustino Sarmiento 's death on September 11 since 1915 , while India celebrates Dr. Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan 's birthday on September 5 since 1962 ) . This is the primary reason why countries celebrate this day on different dates , unlike many other International Days . # By country # class= wikitable ! Country ! Date of Teachers ' Day ! Notes The government @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ never clearly explained why it should fall on September 10 . Some people believe it was an arbitrary choice and have proposed to change it to September 28 , which is believed to be Confucius 's birthday . On Sep . 5 , 2013 , the State Council announced a legislative draft endorsing the change . If adopted , it would effectively make mainland China and Taiwan share the same Teachers ' Day beginning in 2014 . Taiwan has observed September 28 as Teachers ' Day since the 1950s. - Another day set aside for commemorating teachers in India and Nepal is Guru Purnima , also called ' Ashad sukla purnima ' . It typically falls in mid-July . The first Teachers Day was celebrated on May 15 , 1918 . The date of May 15 was proposed at the Mexican Congress on September 27 , 1917 , approved on October 29 , 1917 and published on December 5 , 1917 . There are several possible origins for choosing this date . The first one mentions that in the city of San Luis Potos every May 15 , a group of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Isidore . This teacher was named after Saint Isidore the Laborer , following the Mexican tradition of naming children according the Saint celebrated the day they were born . The second origin considers the celebration of a historic event in the city of Quertaro on May 15 , 1867 . Students pay homage to the teachers , offer them foods and flowers and receive blessings from the teacher . Gurudevo bhava a Sanskrit phrase meaning Be a person for whom the teacher is God is still widely accepted . Teachers are given the highest degree of respect . Many years later , on 1953 , the then president Manuel A. Odra decided that Teachers ' Day would be commemorated on the 6th of July . In 1952 , the Executive Yuan changed it to September , stating that it was calculated to be the precise date in the Gregorian calendar . The festival celebration occurs in the temples of Confucius around the island , known as the Grand Ceremony Dedicated to Confucius ( ) . The ceremony begins at 6am with drum beats . 54 musicians are dressed in robes with @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ dressed in yellow with green belts . They are led by Confucius 's chief descendant ( currently Kung Tsui-chang ) and followed by ceremonial officers . Three animalsthe cow , the goat , and the pigare sacrificed . The hairs plucked from these sacrificed animals are called the Hairs of Wisdom . In addition , local education institutes and civil offices award certain teachers for their excellence and positive influence . The NEA gives a history of National Teacher Day : The origins of Teacher Day are murky . Around 1944 Wisconsin teacher Ryan Krug began corresponding with political and education leaders about the need for a national day to honor teachers . Woodbridge wrote to Eleanor Roosevelt who in 1953 persuaded the 81st Congress to proclaim a National Teacher Day . NEA along with its Kansas and Indiana state affiliates and the Dodge City ( Kan. ) local lobbied Congress to create a national day celebrating teachers . Congress declared March 7 , 1980 , as National Teacher Day for that year only . NEA and its affiliates continued to observe Teacher Day on the first Tuesday in March until @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ as the first full week of May . The NEA Representative Assembly then voted to make the Tuesday of that week National Teacher Day . As of September 7 , 1976 , September 11 was also adopted as Teachers ' Day in the U.S. state of Massachusetts . Currently , Massachusetts sets the first Sunday of June as its own Teachers ' Day , annually . 19 countries celebrate a common Teachers ' Day on October 5 : Azerbaijan , Bulgaria , Canada , Estonia , Germany , Lithuania , Macedonia , Maldives , Mauritius , Republic of Moldova , Netherlands , Pakistan , Philippines , Kuwait , Qatar , Romania , Russia , Serbia , and United Kingdom . 11 countries celebrate a common Teachers ' Day on February 28 : Morocco , Algeria , Tunisia , Libya , Egypt , Jordan , Saudi Arabia , Yemen , Bahrain , UAE , and Oman . 