Charles L. Gaines ( born c. 1942 ) is an American writer and outdoorsman , notable for his works on fly fishing , his role in the development of paintball , and his photo-essay ' ' Pumping Iron ' ' , about the bodybuilding culture of the 1970s , which was later adapted into a documentary film of the same name . # Early life # Gaines was born in Jacksonville , Florida in 1942 , the son of Charles Latham Gaines and Margaret ( Shook ) Gaines . At the age of ten , he and his family moved to Birmingham , Alabama . As a teenager , Gaines took up bodybuilding . He briefly attended Washington and Lee University but left school to travel around the country . He later received his BA from Birmingham-Southern College and his MFA in writing from the University of Iowa . In 1970 , he moved to New Hampshire , where he taught creative writing at New England College . # Writing career # In 1972 , Gaines published his first novel , ' ' Stay Hungry ' ' . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ during the early 1970s , and revolved around the lives of three characters in Birmingham , Alabama : Craig Blake , a young heir from a family of Southern gentry ; Mary Tate Farnsworth , a young woman of working-class background ; and Joe Santo , a bodybuilder , athlete and Renaissance man figure of French Canadian and Menominee Indian ancestry . As well as exploring the culture of bodybuilding in great detail , the novel also dealt with themes of class difference , spirituality and self-identity . In 1976 , ' ' Stay Hungry ' ' was made into a motion picture starring Jeff Bridges , Sally Field and Arnold Schwarzenegger ( the latter in one of his earliest roles . ) In 1974 Gaines created ' ' Pumping Iron : The Art and Sport of Bodybuilding ' ' , a photo-essay with photographs by George Butler which focused in even further detail on the professional bodybuilding scene during the 1970s . It featured such bodybuilding greats as Arnold Schwarzenegger , Franco Columbu , Serge Nubret , Ken Waller , Mike Katz and Ed Corney , and provided a factual @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ is considered to be a seminal work in that field , and still enjoys significant popularity . ' ' Pumping Iron ' ' was adapted by Butler into a documentary film of the same name in 1977 , this time focusing on the 1975 Mr. Olympia bodybuilding contest and the rivalry between Schwarzenegger and up-and-comer Lou Ferrigno , though also including all of the bodybuilders from the original book . The film enjoyed great success , bringing both Ferrigno and Schwarzenegger into the spotlight and increasing their public profiles tremendously . It also helped to further popularize bodybuilding as a sport and bring it into the mainstream . Gaines continued writing on the topic of bodybuilding , publishing an exercise manual , ' ' Staying Hard : The Only Exercise Book You Will Ever Need ' ' in 1980 and writing a biography of Charles Atlas in 1982 . In 1995 he wrote the autobiographical novel ' ' A Family Place ' ' , which documented the building of a family cabin in Nova Scotia with the help of his wife and children . In 2001 he published , a creative @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the world . He also co-authored with Monte Burke . Gaines currently teaches writing part-time at the Spalding University Master of Fine Arts program , and continues to contribute articles to outdoors publications . # Invention of Paintball # In 1976 , Gaines returned to New Hampshire from an African buffalo-hunting safari , and discussed with his friend Bob Gurnsey the idea of a game in which the participants would stalk each other through the woods . The concept was inspired in part by the short story ' ' The Most Dangerous Game ' ' by Richard Connell . In 1981 , Gaines and eleven others played the first game of paintball , using Nel-Spot pistols which were intended for marking trees and livestock by ranchers . This initial game was a capture the flag style scenario . Later , Bob Gurnsey formed the National Survival Game company , which was the first firm to sell paintball equipment . In 1997 Gaines published a novel entitled ' ' Survival Games ' ' which features inventors of paintball , probably based upon Gaines and Gurnsey , as the main characters . 