The synaptotropic hypothesis , also called the synaptotrophic hypothesis , is a neurobiological hypothesis of neuronal growth and synapse formation . The hypothesis was first formulated by J.E . Vaughn in 1988 , and remains a focus of current research efforts . The synaptotropic hypothesis proposes that input from a presynaptic to a postsynaptic cell ( and maturation of excitatory synaptic inputs ) eventually can change the course of synapse formation at dendritic and axonal arbors . This synapse formation is required for the development of neuronal structure in the functioning brain . # Dendritic Arbor Development # # Growth # Dendrites of central nervous system neurons grow by addition and retraction of thin branches . This process is highly dynamic . Only a small fraction of newly added branches are actually maintained to become long-lasting components of the arbor . This process suggests that the branches sample the environment to detect the appropriate cells with which to form synapses . As a result , the hypothesis predicts that growth will be directed into regions containing more presynaptic elements . This morphology can be stabilized by creating microtubule @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ new synapses begins with initial contact between cells via cell-cell adhesion . This contact often occurs between either axonal or dendritic filopodia , which are highly dynamic and rarely stabilize . Next , the adhesive contact is converted to a nascent synapse , which contains glutamatergic NMDA receptors , but not AMPA receptors . However , the activation of NMDARs by glutamate can trigger the recruitment of AMPARs from the postsynaptic density . They also have a relatively high concentration of dense-core vesicles , which are thought to deliver structural proteins to the presynaptic site . # Synapse Maturation # Maturation of glutamatergic synapses involves changes in the amplitude of AMPA receptor-mediated synaptic transmission , as well as in the NMDAR subunit composition . Further , it includes the assembly of the postsynaptic density , which is a protein-dense region with both structural and signaling functions . Synaptic vesicles are also recruited , resulting in an increase in the reliability of synaptic transmission . # Neuronal Architecture # Although neurons generally follow a basic morphological pattern ( consisting of the tree-like dendritic arbor , a cell body , and an axonal @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ unique to every neuron and are central to understanding their complex neural function . The synaptotropic hypothesis implies that function drives form , since the appropriateness of new synapses is constantly being tested by the filopodia in the first stages of dendritogenesis , thus determining the form of the neural architecture . # Modifications of the Hypothesis # Some interpret the synaptotropic hypothesis as saying that manipulations that increase synapse formation and maturation promote formation of larger dendritic arbors , while treatments that reduce synapse maturation result in smaller arbors . However , the opposite result has been found in different manipulations of the molecular pathways underlying synaptogeneis . A resulting modified version of the hypothesis has emerged in which graded levels of synaptic maturation produce corresponding levels of stabilization . This is a different way of viewing the synaptotropic hypothesis that still takes into account the molecular mechanisms of dendritogenesis and synaptogenesis. # Supporting Evidence # The synaptotropic hypothesis would predict that cell adhesion molecules that are important in synapse formation would also greatly affect dendritic arbor growth . This has been shown to be the case with cadherins . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ receptors are expressed in individual ' ' Xenopus ' ' neurons , trafficking of AMPA receptors to nascent synapses is minimized in those cells . These cells , like normal neurons , extend and retract dendritic branches . In the normal cell , some of these branches would form synapses , which is not the case in the neurons expressing the peptide . As a result , these cells have minimal dendritic arbors . This is because without AMPA receptors , the neuron ca n't cause neighboring neurons to fire action potentials , therefore disallowing their synapses to strengthen . As described previously , the pattern of dendritic branching depends on the initial contact of filopodia with afferent axons . The hypothesis predicts that regions with numerous prospective presynaptic terminals will attract more growing dendrites . Researchers have used the developing mouse spinal cord to test this hypothesis . A computer-assisted three-dimensional reconstruction system has been used with Golgi 's method preparations of mouse spinal cords . The relative dendritic lengths and densities at various zones in the spinal cord indicate that dendritic growth is initially primarily towards the marginal zone @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ this biased distribution is lost as synapses form in the intermediate zone . This study is consistent with predictions of the synaptotropic hypothesis of dendritic branching . # Dissenting Evidence # Evidence against the synaptotropic hypothesis comes from experiments with munc 18 knock-out mice , mice engineered to be missing the Munc 18-1 protein , without which the mice never release neurotransmitters from synaptic vesicles . Despite this , the mice develop normal brains before dying immediately after birth . # Imaging Techniques # # Dynamic Morphometrics # Dynamic morphometrics technology involves new methods of labeling , imaging , and quantifying dendritogenesis . The transparent , externally developing vertebrate embryos of ' ' Xenopus laevis ' ' and zebrafish allow direct imaging of the organism in the critical stages of development while keeping the embryos intact . Individual brain neurons can be fluorescently labeled using single cell electroporation while leaving the rest of the brain unaltered . Also , two-photon microscopy allows in vivo time-lapse imaging to create high-resolution , 3D images of neurons deep within the living brain , again with minimal damage to the brain . New computer software @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ methods comprise a new type of imaging technology that can monitor the process of dendritogenesis and can help give evidence to either dissent with or support the synaptotropic hypothesis . # Applications # Dynamic morphometrics and other imaging techniques have been used to observe both dendrite growth and synaptogenesistwo processes between which the relationship is not well understood . Non-spiny dendritic arbors expressing a fluorescent postsynaptic marker protein were imaged as they arborized ( in the zebrafish larvae ) , and this confirmed the role of newly extended dendritic filopodia in synaptogenesis , their maturation into dendritic branches , and the result , namely , growth and branching of the dendritic arbor . These findings support the model wherein synapse formation can direct dendrite arborization , a basic tenet of the synaptotropic hypothesis . 