branchof = The National Library of Scotland ( , ) is the legal deposit library of Scotland and is one of the country 's National Collections . It is based in a collection of buildings in Edinburgh city centre . The headquarters is on George IV Bridge , between the Old Town and the university quarter . There is also a more modern building ( 1980s ) in a residential area on the south side of the town centre , on Causewayside . This was built to accommodate some of the specialist collections ( e.g. , map library , science library ) and to provide large-scale extra storage . The National Library of Scotland holds 7 million books , 14 million printed items and over 2 million maps . The collection includes copies of the Gutenberg Bible , the letter which Charles Darwin submitted with the manuscript of ' ' Origin of Species ' ' , the First Folio of Shakespeare and numerous journals and other publications . It has the largest collection of Scottish Gaelic material of any library . # History # The National Library of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ by Act of Parliament in 1925 . Previously , Scotland 's national deposit library was the Advocates Library belonging to the Faculty of Advocates . This was opened in 1689 and gained national library status in the 1710 Copyright Act , giving it the legal right to claim a copy of every book published in Great Britain . In the following centuries , the library added books and manuscripts to the collections by purchase as well as legal deposit , creating a national library in all but name . By the 1920s , the upkeep of such a major collection was too much for a private body , and , with an endowment of 100,000 provided by Sir Alexander Grant of Forres , the library 's contents were presented to the nation . The National Library of Scotland was formally constituted by an Act of Parliament in 1925 . Sir Alexander Grant gave a further 100,000 making his combined donations the equivalent of around 6 million today for a new library building to be constructed on George IV Bridge , replacing the very grand Victorian Edinburgh Sheriff Court , which moved @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ matched Sir Alexander 's donation . Work on the new building was started in 1938 , interrupted by the Second World War , and completed in 1956 . The architect was Reginald Fairlie ; the architectural sculptor was Hew Lorimer . The coat of arms above the entrance was sculpted by Scott Sutherland . By the 1970s , room for the ever-expanding collections was running out , and it was obvious that other premises were needed . The Causewayside Building opened in the south-side of Edinburgh in two phases , in 1989 and in 1995 , at a total cost of almost 50 million , providing much-needed additional working space and storage facilities . Since 1999 , the Library has been funded by the Scottish Parliament . It remains one of only six legal deposit libraries in the United Kingdom and Ireland , and is governed by a board of trustees . The Library also holds many ancient family manuscripts including those of the Clan Sinclair , which date back as far as 1488 . On 26 February 2009 , areas of the building were flooded after a water main burst @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ leaking water was stopped within ten minutes . A number of items were lightly damaged . The last letter written by Mary Queen of Scots made a rare public appearance to mark the opening of a new Library visitor centre in September 2009 . The Library joined the 10:10 project in 2010 in a bid to reduce their carbon footprint . One year later they announced that they had reduced their carbon emissions according to 10:10 's criteria by 18%. thumbrightCausewayside annexe ( opened in 1988 ) 