The Revolt of the Admirals is a name given to an episode that took place in 1949 in which several United States Navy admirals publicly disagreed with the President and the Secretary of Defense 's plans for the reduction of the Navy and their new emphasis on the strategic nuclear bombing role by the Air Force as the primary means by which the nation was defended . The events occurred in the early post-war period , when the technologies of large jet aircraft , the nuclear bomb and the means by which it could be delivered were in a developmental stage . # Background # Following the end of World War II , the Truman administration was concerned about the large deficit spending that had been necessary for the war effort . To reduce expenditures Truman instructed the services to draw-down their forces quickly and return to a peacetime military . The two main issues facing the services was the question of unification of the services under a single command , and the funding that each branch would have in the markedly reduced military budget . The discussion @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ George C. Marshall 's call for unification of the Department of War and the Department of the Navy . Marshall believed that the services needed a unified overall command to better coordinate their activities and to minimize redundancy . He first advanced his general ideas on the subject in November 1943 , and his proposals led to what became known as the unification debates . The Army made a proposal of command structure which would unite the U.S Army , the U.S. Navy and a soon to be formed U.S. Air Force under a single United States Department of Defense The generals from the Army Air Force believed that with the increased destructive power they could now apply against potential enemies , big changes in the manner in which the nation was defended were warranted . With the advent of the nuclear age , the question arose as to what need existed for conventional military forces . The Air Force generals believed that much of the forces of the other services were unnecessary and could be cut . They held that the future for national defense lay with a long range @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ flawed view was accepted by the administration as being correct , and the meaningful existence of the other services came into jeopardy . Said Secretary of Defense Louis A. Johnson : In this environment , each military branch believed their future depended on securing and defending a clear cut mission for themselves . However , the Truman administration saw these officers as answering to and serving the Truman administration , and believed that their attitude in public and in congressional testimony should be in support of the administration 's position . Along these lines came the passage of the National Security Act of 1947 which reorganized the military , creating a means by which the various commands were coordinated under a military establishment of three equal executive departments , the Army , Navy and Air Force . The generals of the newly formed air force propounded a new doctrine : that strategic bombing , particularly with nuclear weapons , was the sole decisive element necessary to win any future war ; and was therefore the sole means necessary to deter an adversary from launching a Pearl Harbor-like surprise attack or war @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ which the air force and its supporters regarded as the highest national priority , the air force proposed that it should be funded by the Congress to build a large fleet of U.S. based long-range strategic heavy bombers . The air force generals argued that this project should receive large amounts of funding , beginning with an upgraded B-36 Peacemaker intercontinental bomber . With four times the payload of the B-29 and twice the range , the Air Force planned to fly the B-36 on deep raids into enemy territory , using its ceiling altitude of 40,000 feet to protect it from interdiction . The Navy disagreed . Pointing to the impact the Navy 's carrier arm had on the outcome of the war in the Pacific , they argued that naval power and carrier aviation were essential to maintaining national defense . Admiral Marc Mitscher , the former commander of the Fast Carrier Task Force , was one such officer who publicly commented on the value of the US Navy in winning the war , and its value in the future defense of the nation . The Navy leadership believed @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ , with or without the use of nuclear weapons . The Navy also held a moral objection to relying upon the widespread use of nuclear weapons to destroy the major population centers of an enemy homeland . The Navy pointed out that with the ships they hoped to build in the future naval aviation would be able to continue in its tactical role of close air support using modern aircraft , and in addition would also be able to take on the role of nuclear deterrence . The ' ' USS United States ' ' was designed to handle aircraft up to 100,000 pounds , which were large enough to carry the nuclear weapons of the day . Plans for the ' ' United States ' ' -class carriers called for them carrying up to 14 heavy bombers each , with enough aviation fuel for eight bombing raids per plane . With a capability to run 112 nuclear weapon drops before resupply became necessary , the ' ' United States ' ' -class carriers would be capable of performing the nuclear deterrence mission . The admirals requested funding for the building @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ over a five-year period . # Cancellation of USS ' ' United States ' ' # The first United States Secretary of Defense On March 28 , 1949 , President Truman replaced Forrestal with Louis A. Johnson . Johnson was a political appointment . A former Assistant to the Secretary of War , he had been the primary fundraiser for Truman 's campaign for the White House in 1948 . Johnson had no qualms over supporting Truman 's military budget reductions and accepted the Air Force 's argument . The Air Force disliked the Navy 's aircraft carriers , as they were an aviation asset which the Air Force could not control and which the Air Force planners considered obsolete in the age of nuclear weapons . Johnson , who was a staunch proponent of the new nuclear bomber force , consequently sought to limit as much as possible the Navy 's procurement of the new large carriers to conserve funds in the markedly reduced post-war military budget . Less than a month after taking office , and without consulting Congress , Johnson ordered cancellation of ' ' United States ' @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ the Navy 's future , and its cancellation greatly demoralized the service . Secretary of the Navy John L. Sullivan and a number of high-ranking admirals resigned in protest . Johnson did not seem disturbed by the resignations . His decision to cancel ' ' United States ' ' provided him with significant economy in the military budget , while demonstrating that he was in firm control of the military and able to make difficult decisions . A few days later , Johnson announced another cost saving measure . The United States Marine Corps aviation assets would be transferred to the Air Force . This time , his decision was met with such an uproar from Congress that this plan had to be quietly dropped . To replace Sullivan , Johnson recommended Francis P. Matthews for the position of Secretary of the Navy . A lawyer from Omaha , Nebraska , during the Second World War he had served as a director of the USO , a service organization that entertained the troops . He came to the attention of Johnson by assisting him with political fund raising for the 1948 @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Matthews admitted the nearest he had come to naval experience was rowing a boat on a lake . In May 1949 Truman made the appointment . A research group , Op-23 , a naval intelligence unit formed by order of Admiral Louis E. Denfeld to advise the CNO on unification and headed by Captain ( naval ) The situation was exacerbated by a series of articles written for the public by Rear Admiral Daniel V. Gallery which appeared in the ' ' The Saturday Evening Post ' ' . The final article in the series , Do n't Let Them Scuttle the Navy ! , so angered Johnson that he wanted Admiral Gallery court-martialed for gross insubordination . Gallery was not made to sit before a court-martial , but he was passed over for promotion to vice admiral , and was retired from the Navy . # Congressional hearings # The debate climaxed during the United States House Committee on Armed Services A second hearing convened in October focused upon the proposed reduction in the Navy and the cancellation of the USS ' ' United States ' ' project . The @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ be used to reinforce the Air Force , but could not be used for sustained actions against land targets . Regarding the USS ' ' United States ' ' , Air Force Chief of Staff Hoyt Vandenberg commented : I accept the military capability of this ship as stated by the Chief of Naval Operations . My opposition to building it comes from the fact that I can see no necessity for a ship with those capabilities in any strategic plan against the one possible enemy . The MiG 15 was the Soviet answer . Armed with a 37 mm cannon and two 23 mm cannons , it had the hitting power to destroy heavy aircraft . Fast , and with a ceiling of nearly 50,000 feet , it could fly above the bomber formations and then attack down through , slipping past the fighter escort . Operating out of airfields in China , its bases were not subject to the constant attention that German airfields had received when they were operating the Messerschmitt Me 262 . Presence of the MiG 15 meant daylight precision bombing had to be suspended . @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ to the B-36 , the Air Force was not willing to risk the aircraft in combat , though it did find some use as a high altitude reconnaissance aircraft . Plagued by frequent engine fires and high maintenance , it never played a significant role . The Navy did get its new carriers , the first of which was . At 80,000 tons , it was twice the size of World War II carriers . It featured an armoured flight deck that was angled , allowing the carrier to launch and recover aircraft at the same time . The flight deck was large enough to land the heavy , high powered aircraft of the jet age , and the ship was equipped with steam catapult launchers to assist them in getting airborne . The design of the supercarrier has evolved through the ' ' Enterprise ' ' , to the ' ' Nimitz ' ' -class , to the ' ' Ford ' ' -class aircraft carriers . Proponents of the Air Force doctrine saw the Korean War as an anomalous event , the demands of which were not relevant to @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Soviet Union . However the Korean war was followed by the Vietnam war , which in turn was followed by several smaller conflicts . Ultimately Soviet aggression was never made manifest through a massive nuclear attack , but was pressed through a series of proxy conflicts . The interests of the United States extended beyond protecting the nation from a hostile invader . Though the idea of defeating an enemy by the use of overwhelming destructive force was appealing , it did not fit the reality the nation was confronted with . , the US Navy has the ten supercarriers of the ' ' Nimitz ' ' class in active service . Two of the follow on ' ' Gerald R. Ford ' ' -class are currently under construction with eight more to follow through to 2040 to replace the ' ' Enterprise ' ' and the ' ' Nimitz ' ' -class carriers . 