el = No The StavneLeangen Line ( ) is a 5.8km sp=us railway line between Stavne and Leangen in Trondheim , Norway . The line provides an alternative connection between the Dovre Line and Nordland Line , allowing trains to bypass Trondheim Central Station . The line includes the Stavne Bridge over the river of Nidelva , Lerkendal Station and the 2.7km sp=us long Tyholt Tunnel . Construction of the line started during the Second World War by the ' ' Wehrmacht ' ' , the German military occupying Norway , in an attempt to make the railway in Trondheim resistant to sabotage . Because of the long construction time of the tunnel , tracks were laid in the city streets , but neither route was completed before the end of the war . Construction was placed on hold and the StavneLeangen Line did not open until 2 June 1957 . At first it was primarily used by freight trains , but since 1988 , passenger services have been provided . TOC # Route # The StavneLeangen Line is 5.8 km and acts as a connection between the @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Line ) in Trondheim . It is single track and standard gauge , is not electrified and has no passing loops . It is equipped with centralized traffic control ( CTC ) , has eight bridges , two tunnels and no level crossings . The line is owned by the Norwegian National Rail Administration . To the southwest , the line connects to the Dovre Line at Stavne . There are two forks , laid triangularly , one each from the north and south . On the Dovre Line 's side of the triangle is the closed Stavne Station . The track from the north branches off just after passing Marienborg Station . The station is built in such a way that trains on the Dovre Line use the one track and trains on the StavneLeangen Line use the other track . The StavneLeangen Line 's northern switch is located 547.82 km from Oslo Central Station , and 2.82 km from Trondheim Central Station . The southern fork merges with the northern fork 1.79 km after the northern fork branches from the mainline . At 80 m after the merger , @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Bridge before crossing European Road E6 on a 25.3m sp=us long concrete bridge . The line then reaches Lerkendal Station , which is located 2.55 km from Marienborg . It serves the Glshaugen campus of the Norwegian University of Science and Technology , and Lerkendal Stadion , the home ground of Rosenborg BK . The line continues through the 2785m sp=us long Tyholt Tunnel , which starts 270 m after Lerkendal Station . The line merges with the Nordland Line at Leangen Station , which is located 3.49 km from Trondheim Central Station . # History # During the German occupation of Norway as part of the Second World War , the ' ' Wehrmacht ' ' wanted a railway route past Trondheim which was guarded against sabotage . They decided that the best way to do this was to build a tunnel under the neighborhood of Tyholt . However , construction of the tunnel took much longer than expected , so instead ' ' Wehrmach ' ' started laying railway tracks in the streets in Trondheim . They planned that the railway would branch from the Dovre Line at Skansen @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ cross Nidelva on Bakke Bridge and then run up Innherredsveien before reaching the Merker Line at Lademoen Station . However , by German capitulation on 8 May 1945 , construction of the railway had only reached Sndre gate . The Norwegian State Railways regained interest in the line during the 1950s and resumed construction . The line was officially opened on 1 June 1957 and revenue traffic started the following day . The line was originally only used for freight trains , although it was occasionally used by passenger trains , especially when there was maintenance work on bridges . The line received CTC on 11 January 1976 . Lerkendal Station was opened on 1 December 1988 , and with the establishment of the Trndelag Commuter Rail in 1993 , the station started being used for scheduled commuter rail services . Ownership of the line passed to the Norwegian National Rail Administration from 1 December 1996 . Marienborg Station opened in 1999 , and from 2001 , all commuter trains operating to and from Steinkjer had Lerkendal Station as their southern terminus . In 2002 , NSB launched a now abandoned @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ According to the proposal , trains would have operated along the Dovre Line from Melhus Station and then run to Lerkendal before continuing onwards to Lademoen and running in a loop back to the central station . The services was proposed to be operated as part of the commuter rail system . It would have required investments of 120 million Norwegian krone , including a connection for trains to be able to run from the east end of the line and westwards on the Nordland Line , and investments to noise insulate the Tyholt Tunnel . In a 2005 report , SINTEF recommended that if such a service should be introduced , it should have four services per hour and operated with light rail rolling stock as a circle line with a tail southwards to Heimdal or Melhus . The report further commented that the new connection at Lademoen would have a 3.6-percent gradient , which would be too steep for mainline trains . 