William Jethro Brown ( 29 March 1868 27 May 1930 ) was an Australian jurist and professor of law . # Early life # Brown was the son of James Brown , a farmer , and his wife Sophia Jane , ' ' ne ' ' Torr , and was born at Mintaro , South Australia . Brown was educated at Stanley Grammar School , Watervale , South Australia , and taught for a while at Moonta Mines State School . He then studied at St John 's College , Cambridge , graduating in 1890 with a double first class in the law tripos . He was called to the bar of the Middle Temple in 1891 and elected Macmahon student at St John 's College in 1892. # Law career # In 1893 Brown was appointed professor of law and modern history at the University of Tasmania and held this position until 1900 ( apart from 1898 when he acted as professor of law in the University of Sydney ) . In 1898 he published as a pamphlet ' ' Why Federate ' ' , which had @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ Science . It was a crucial year for the cause of Federation , and Brown did good service in pointing out that the difficulties were mostly of a mechanical character . In 1899 appeared his thoughtful study ' ' The New Democracy ' ' , and in 1900 he left Australia to become professor of constitutional law and history at University College London . In the following year he was appointed professor of comparative law at the University College of Wales . He was examiner for the Cambridge law tripos 19021905 , and for the University of London from 19051906 . In 1906 he became professor of law at the University of Adelaide , holding the position for 10 years . His ' ' The Austinian Theory of Law ' ' , an edition with critical notes and excursus of lectures I , V and VI of Austin 's ' ' Jurisprudence ' ' and of his ' ' Essay on the Uses of the Study of Jurisprudence ' ' , was published in 1906 and was reprinted several times . In 1912 he published ' ' The Underlying Principles of @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ real contribution to political thought ; a fifth edition appeared in April 1917 . In this volume Brown points out that the likelihood of greatly increased state activity in the future throws a great responsibility on the teacher and the brains and character of the community ; and that problems will arise that will demand enlightened statesmanship no less than reforming zeal . Brown did not attempt to set out his own view 's on the settlements of particular problems . The book was planned as a university textbook , and he held that the writer in a book of that kind ought to be careful in expressing personal opinions about problems of which the precise solution is very debatable . Next appeared the volume ' ' The Prevention and Control of Monopolies ' ' , where he is more constructive , but always endeavours to hold the scales evenly . He was appointed president of the industrial court of South Australia in 1916 and showed great industry , courtesy and ability in carrying out his duties . His experiences as chairman of the sugar commission in 191214 and on other @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ @ foodstuffs commission , and the gas commission , enabled . him to gain much knowledge of the conditions in industry . # Late life and legacy # Brown 's health began to fail and in July 1927 he resigned his position . He died at Adelaide of pneumonia on 27 May 1930 . Brown held the LLD . degree of the University of Cambridge , and received the degree of Litt . D. from the University of Dublin for his The New Democracy . Brown married Aime Loth in 1900 who survived him with a son , the marriage was a dismal one . Brown also contributed a long essay The Judicial Regulation of Industrial Conditions to ' ' Australia , Economic and Political Studies ' ' , edited by Meredith Atkinson . He also wrote largely for the reviews , including the Law Quarterly Review , the Hibbert Journal , the International Journal of Ethics , the Westminster Review , the Independent Review , the Juridical Review , the Columbia Law Review and the Yale Law Journal . 